AARD-VARK
Aard"-vark`, n. Etym: [D., earth-pig.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhat
resembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrows
in the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with its
long, slimy tongue.

AARD-WOLF
Aard"-wolf`, n. Etym: [D, earth-wolf] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South Africa,
resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.

AARONIC; AARONICAL
Aa*ron"ic, Aa*ron"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Aaron, the first high priest of the Jews.

AARON'S ROD
Aar"on's rod`. Etym: [See Exodus vii. 9 and Numbers xvii. 8]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A rod with one serpent twined around it, thus differing from
the caduceus of Mercury, which has two.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with a tall flowering stem; esp. the great mullein, or
hag-taper, and the golden-rod.

AB-
Ab-. Etym: [Latin prep., etymologically the same as E. of, off. See
Of.]

Defn: A prefix in many words of Latin origin. It signifies from, away
, separating, or departure, as in abduct, abstract, abscond. See A-
(6).

AB
Ab, n. Etym: [Of Syriac origin.]

Defn: The fifth month of the Jewish year according to the
ecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation,
coinciding nearly with August. W. Smith.

ABACA
Ab"a*ca, n. Etym: [The native name.]

Defn: The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See
Manila hemp under Manila.

ABACINATE
A*bac"i*nate, v.t. Etym: [LL. abacinatus, p.p. of abacinare; ab off +
bacinus a basin.]

Defn: To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes. [R.]

ABACINATION
A*bac`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of abacinating. [R.]

ABACISCUS
Ab`a*cis"cus, n. Etym: [Gr.Abacus.] (Arch.)

Defn: One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; an
abaculus.

ABACIST
Ab"a*cist, n. Etym: [LL abacista, fr. abacus.]

Defn: One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.

ABACK
A*back", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + back; AS. on bæc at, on, or toward
the back. See Back.]

1. Toward the back or rear; backward. "Therewith aback she started."
Chaucer.

2. Behind; in the rear. Knolles.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: Backward against the mast;-said of the sails when pressed by
the wind. Totten. To be taken aback. (a) To be driven backward
against the mast; -- said of the sails, also of the ship when the
sails are thus driven. (b) To be suddenly checked, baffled, or
discomfited. Dickens.

ABACK
Ab"ack, n.

Defn: An abacus. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ABACTINAL
Ab*ac"ti*nal, a. Etym: [L. ab + E. actinal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in a
radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal. "The aboral or abactinal
area." L. Agassiz.

ABACTION
Ab*ac"tion, n.

Defn: Stealing cattle on a large scale. [Obs.]

ABACTOR
Ab*ac"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. abigere to drive away; ab+agere to
drive.] (Law)

Defn: One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds or
droves. [Obs.]

ABACULUS
A*bac"u*lus, n.; pl. Abaculi. Etym: [L., dim. of abacus.] (Arch.)

Defn: A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of various
colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.
Fairholt.

ABACUS
Ab"a*cus, n. E. pl. Abacuses ; L. pl. Abaci. Etym: [L. abacus, abax,
Gr.

1. A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing,
calculating, etc. [Obs.]

2. A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing
arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in
grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens,
etc. It is still employed in China.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The uppermost member or division of the capital of a column,
immediately under the architrave. See Column.
(b) A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic work.

4. A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated compartments, for
holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of cupboard, buffet, or
sideboard. Abacus harmonicus (Mus.), an ancient diagram showing the
structure and disposition of the keys of an instrument. Crabb.

ABADA
Ab"a*da, n. Etym: [Pg., the female rhinoceros.]

Defn: The rhinoceros. [Obs.] Purchas.

ABADDON
A*bad"don, n. Etym: [Heb. abaddon destruction, abyss, fr. abad to be
lost, to perish.]

1. The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same as
Apollyon and Asmodeus.

2. Hell; the bottomless pit. [Poetic]
In all her gates, Abaddon rues Thy bold attempt. Milton.

ABAFT
A*baft", prep. Etym: [Pref. a-on + OE. baft, baften, biaften, AS.
beæftan; be by + æftan behind. See After, Aft, By.] (Naut.)

Defn: Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse. Abaft
the beam. See under Beam.

ABAFT
A*baft", adv. (Naut.)

Defn: Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft.

ABAISANCE
A*bai"sance, n. Etym: [For obeisance; confused with F. abaisser, E.
abase]

Defn: Obeisance. [Obs.] Jonson.

ABAISER
A*bai"ser, n.

Defn: Ivory black or animal charcoal. Weale.

ABAIST
A*baist", p.p.

Defn: Abashed; confounded; discomfited. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABALIENATE
Ab*al"ien*ate, v.t. Etym: [L. abalienatus, p.p. of abalienare; ab +
alienus foreign, alien. See Alien.]

1. (Civil Law)

Defn: To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.

2. To estrange; to withdraw. [Obs.]

3. To cause alienation of (mind). Sandys.

ABALIENATION
Ab*al`ien*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. abalienatio: cf. F. abalianation.]

Defn: The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement. [Obs.]

ABALONE
Ab`a*lo"ne, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is lined
with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear.
Several large species are found on the coast of California, clinging
closely to the rocks.

ABAND
A*band", v.t. Etym: [Contracted from abandon.]

1. To abandon. [Obs.]
Enforced the kingdom to aband. Spenser.

2. To banish; to expel. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag.

ABANDON
A*ban"don, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abandoned; p.pr. & vb.n. Abandoning.]
Etym: [OF. abandoner, F.abandonner; a (L. ad)+bandon permission,
authority, LL. bandum, bannum, public proclamation, interdiction,
bannire to proclaim, summon: of Germanic origin; cf. Goth. bandwjan
to show by signs, to designate OHG. banproclamation. The word meant
to proclaim, put under a ban, put under control; hence, as in OE., to
compel, subject, or to leave in the control of another, and hence, to
give up. See Ban.]

1. To cast or drive out; to banish; to expel; to reject. [Obs.]
That he might . . . abandon them from him. Udall.
Being all this time abandoned from your bed. Shak.

2. To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely ; to renounce utterly;
to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to desert, as a
person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit; to
surrender.
Hope was overthrown, yet could not be abandoned. I. Taylor.

3. Reflexively : To give (one's self) up without attempt at self-
control ; to yield (one's self) unrestrainedly ; -- often in a bad
sense.
He abandoned himself . . . to his favorite vice. Macaulay.

4. (Mar. Law)

Defn: To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person
gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a
policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured
against.

Syn.
 -- To give up; yield; forego; cede; surrender; resign; abdicate;
quit; relinquish; renounce; desert; forsake; leave; retire; withdraw
from.
 -- To Abandon, Desert, Forsake. These words agree in representing a
person as giving up or leaving some object, but differ as to the mode
of doing it. The distinctive sense of abandon is that of giving up a
thing absolutely and finally; as, to abandon one's friends, places,
opinions, good or evil habits, a hopeless enterprise, a shipwrecked
vessel. Abandon is more widely applicable than forsake or desert. The
Latin original of desert appears to have been originally applied to
the case of deserters from military service. Hence, the verb, when
used of persons in the active voice, has usually or always a bad
sense, implying some breach of fidelity, honor, etc., the leaving of
something which the person should rightfully stand by and support;
as, to desert one's colors, to desert one's post, to desert one's
principles or duty. When used in the passive, the sense is not
necessarily bad; as, the fields were deserted, a deserted village,
deserted halls. Forsake implies the breaking off of previous habit,
association, personal connection, or that the thing left had been
familiar or frequented; as, to forsake old friends, to forsake the
paths of rectitude, the blood forsook his cheeks. It may be used
either in a good or in a bad sense.

ABANDON
A*ban"don, n. Etym: [F. abandon. fr. abandonner. See Abandon, v.]

Defn: Abandonment; relinquishment. [Obs.]

ABANDON
A`ban`don", n. Etym: [F. See Abandon.]

Defn: A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from
artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.

ABANDONED
A*ban"doned, a.

1. Forsaken, deserted. "Your abandoned streams." Thomson.

2. Self-abandoned, or given up to vice; extremely wicked, or sinning
without restraint; irreclaimably wicked ; as, an abandoned villain.

Syn.
 -- Profligate; dissolute; corrupt; vicious; depraved; reprobate;
wicked; unprincipled; graceless; vile.
 -- Abandoned, Profligate, Reprobate. These adjectives agree in
expressing the idea of great personal depravity. Profligate has
reference to open and shameless immoralities, either in private life
or political conduct; as, a profligate court, a profligate ministry.
Abandoned is stronger, and has reference to the searing of conscience
and hardening of heart produced by a man's giving himself wholly up
to iniquity; as, a man of abandoned character. Reprobate describes
the condition of one who has become insensible to reproof, and who is
morally abandoned and lost beyond hope of recovery.
God gave them over to a reprobate mind. Rom. i. 28.

ABANDONEDLY
A*ban"doned*ly, adv.

Defn: Unrestrainedly.

ABANDONEE
A*ban`don*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: One to whom anything is legally abandoned.

ABANDONER
A*ban"don*er, n.

Defn: One who abandons. Beau. & Fl.

ABANDONMENT
A*ban"don*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abandonnement.]

1. The act of abandoning, or the state of being abandoned; total
desertion; relinquishment.
The abandonment of the independence of Europe. Burke.

2. (Mar. Law)

Defn: The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of what
may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a peril
insured against.

3. (Com. Law)

Defn: (a) The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as to
mill site, etc. (b) The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is
bound by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.

4. Careless freedom or ease; abandon. [R.] Carlyle.

ABANDUM
A*ban"*dum, n. Etym: [LL. See Abandon.] (Law)

Defn: Anything forfeited or confiscated.

ABANET
Ab"a*net, n.

Defn: See Abnet.


CHILOGNATHA
Chi*log"na*tha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the two principal orders of myriapods. They have
numerous segments, each bearing two pairs of small, slender legs,
which are attached ventrallly, near together.

CHILOMA
Chi*lo"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oma.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The tumid upper lip of certain mammals, as of a camel.

CHILOPOD
Chi"lo*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A myriapod of the order Chilopoda.

CHILOPODA
Chi*lop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the orders of myriapods, including the centipeds. They
have a single pair of elongated legs attached laterally to each
segment; well developed jaws; and a pair of thoracic legs converted
into poison fangs. They are insectivorous, very active, and some
species grow to the length of a foot.

CHILOSTOMA; CHILOSTOMATA
Chi*los"to*ma, Chi*lo*stom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive suborder of marine Bryozoa, mostly with calcareous
shells. They have a movable lip and a lid to close the aperture of
the cells. [Also written Chillostomata.]

CHILOSTOMATOUS
Chi`lo*stoma*tous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Chilostoma.

CHILTERN HUNDREDS
Chiltern Hundreds. Etym: [AS. Chiltern the Chiltern, high hills in
Buckinghamshire, perh. Fr. ceald cold + ern, ærn, place.]

Defn: A tract of crown land in Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire,
England, to which is attached the nominal office of steward. As
members of Parliament cannot resign, when they wish to go out they
accept this stewardship, which legally vacates their seats.

CHIMAERA
Chi*mæ"ra, n. Etym: [NL. See Chimera.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cartilaginous fish of several species, belonging to the order
Holocephali. The teeth are few and large. The head is furnished with
appendages, and the tail terminates in a point.

CHIMAEROID
Chi*mæ"roid, a. Etym: [Chimæra + old.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Related to, or like, the chimæra.

CHIMANGO
Chi*man"go Etym: [Native name] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A south American carrion buzzard (Milvago chimango). See
Caracara.

CHIMB
Chimb (chim), n. Etym: [AS. cim, in cimstan base of a pillar; akin to
D. kim, f. Sw. kim., G. kimme f.]

Defn: The edge of a cask, etc; a chine. See Chine, n., 3. [Written
also hime.]

CHIMB
Chimb, v. i.

Defn: Chime. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHIME
Chime, n. Etym: [See Chimb.]

Defn: See Chine, n., 3.

CHIME
Chime, n. Etym: [OE. chimbe, prop., cymbal, OF. cymbe, cymble, in a
dialectic form, chymble, F. cymbale, L. cymbalum, fr. Gr. Cymbal.]

1. The harmonious sound of bells, or of musical instruments.
Instruments that made melodius chime. Milton.

2. A set of bells musically tuned to each other; specif., in the pl.,
the music performed on such a set of bells by hand, or produced by
mechanism to accompany the striking of the hours or their divisions.
We have heard the chimes at midnight. Shak.

3. Pleasing correspondence of proportion, relation, or sound. "Chimes
of verse." Cowley.

CHIME
Chime, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chimed; p. pr. & vb. n. Chiming.] Etym:
[See Chime, n.]

1. To sound in harmonious accord, as bells.

2. To be in harmony; to agree; to sut; to harmonize; to correspond;
to fall in with.
Everything chimed in with such a humor. W. irving.

3. To join in a conversation; to express assent; -- followed by in or
in with. [Colloq.]

4. To make a rude correspondence of sounds; to jingle, as in rhyming.
Cowley

CHIME
Chime, v. i.

1. To cause to sound in harmony; to play a tune, as upon a set of
bells; to move or strike in harmony.
And chime their sounding hammers. Dryden.

2. To utter harmoniously; to recite rhythmically.
Chime his childish verse. Byron.

CHIMER
Chim"er, n.

Defn: One who chimes.

CHIMERA
Chime"ra, n.; pl. Chimeras. Etym: [L. chimaera a chimera (in sense
1), Gr. qymbr a yearling ewe.]

1. (Myth.)

Defn: A monster represented as vomiting flames, and as having the
head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a dragon. "Dire
chimeras and enchanted isles." Milton.

2. A vain, foolish, or incongruous fancy, or creature of the
imagination; as, the chimera of an author. Burke.

CHIMERE
Chi*mere", n. Etym: [OF. chamarre., F. simarre (cf. It. zimarra), fr.
Sp. chamarra, zamarra, a coat made of sheepskins, a sheepskin, perh.
from Ar. sammur the Scythian weasel or marten, the sable. Cf.
Simarre.]

Defn: The upper robe worn by a bishop, to which lawn sleeves are
usually attached. Hook.

CHIMERIC
Chi*mer"ic, a.

Defn: Chimerical.

CHIMERICAL
Chi*mer"ic*al, a.

Defn: Merely imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wildly or vainly
conceived; having, or capable of having, no existence except in
thought; as, chimerical projects.

Syn.
 -- Imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wild; unfounded; vain; deceitful;
delusive.

CHIMERICALLY
Chi*mer"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Wildy; vainly; fancifully.

CHIMINAGE
Chim"i*nage, n. Etym: [OF. cheminage, fr. chemin way, road.] (Old
Law)

Defn: A toll for passage through a forest. [Obs.] Cowell.

CHIMNEY
Chim"ney, n.; pl. Chimneys. Etym: [F. cheminée, LL. caminata, fr. L.
caminus furnace, fireplace, Gr.

1. A fireplace or hearth. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

2. That part of a building which contains the smoke flues; esp. an
upright tube or flue of brick or stone, in most cases extending
through or above the roof of the building. Often used instead of
chimney shaft.
Hard by a cottage chimney smokes. Milton.

3. A tube usually of glass, placed around a flame, as of a lamp, to
create a draft, and promote combustion.

4. (Min.)

Defn: A body of ore, usually of elongated form, extending downward in
a vein. Raymond. Chimney board, a board or screen used to close a
fireplace; a fireboard.
 -- Chimney cap, a device to improve the draught of a chimney, by
presenting an exit aperture always to leeward.
 -- Chimney corner, the space between the sides of the fireplace and
the fire; hence, the fireside.
 -- Chimney hook, a hook for holding pats and kettles over a fire, --
Chimney money, hearth money, a duty formerly paid in England for each
chimney.
 -- Chimney pot (Arch.), a cylinder of earthenware or sheet metal
placed at the top of a chimney which rises above the roof.
 -- Chimney swallow. (Zoöl.) (a) An American swift (Chæture
pelasgica) which lives in chimneys. (b) In England, the common
swallow (Hirundo rustica).
 -- Chimney sweep, Chimney sweeper, one who cleans chimneys of soot;
esp. a boy who climbs the flue, and brushes off the soot.

CHIMNEY-BREAST
Chim"ney-breast`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The horizontal projection of a chimney from the wall in which
it is built; -- commonly applied to its projection in the inside of a
building only.

CHIMNEY-PIECE
Chim"ney-piece`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A decorative construction around the opning of a fireplace.

CHIMPANZEE
Chim*pan"zee, n. Etym: [From the native name: cf. F. chimpanzé,
chimpansé, chimpanzée.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An african ape (Anthropithecus troglodytes or Troglodytes
niger) which approaches more nearly to man, in most respects, than
any other ape. When full grown, it is from three to four feet high.

CHIN
Chin, n. Etym: [AS. cin, akin to OS. kin, G kinn, Icel. kinn, cheek,
Dan. & Sw. kind, L. gena, Gr. hanu. *232.]

1. The lower extremity of the face below the mouth; the point of the
under jaw.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The exterior or under surface embraced between the branches of
the lower jaw bone, in birds.

CHINA
Chi"na, n.

1. A country in Eastern Asia.

2. China ware, which is the modern popular term for porcelain. See
Porcelain. China aster (Bot.), a well-known garden flower and plant.
See Aster.
 -- China bean. See under Bean, 1.
 -- China clay See Kaolin.
 -- China grass, Same as Ramie.
 -- China ink. See India ink.
 -- China pink (Bot.), an anual or biennial species of Dianthus (D.
Chiensis) having variously colored single or double flowers; Indian
pink.
 -- China root (Med.), the rootstock of a species of Smilax (S.
China, from the East Indies; -- formerly much esteemed for the
purposes that sarsaparilla is now used for. Also the galanga root
(from Alpinia Gallanga and Alpinia officinarum).
 -- China rose. (Bot.) (a) A popular name for several free-blooming
varieties of rose derived from the Rosa Indica, and perhaps other
species. (b) A flowering hothouse plant (Hibiscus Rosa-Sinensis) of
the Mallow family, common in the gardens of China and the east
Indies.
 -- China shop, a shop or store for the sale of China ware or of
crockery.
 -- China ware, porcelain; -- so called in the 17th century because
brought from the far East, and differing from the pottery made in
Europa at that time; also, loosely, crockery in general.
 -- Pride of China, China tree. (Bot.) See Azedarach.

CHINALDINE
Chin*al"dine, n. Etym: [NL. chinium quinine + aldehyde.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinaldine.

CHINAMAN
Chi"na*man, n.; pl. Chinamen (.

Defn: A native of China; a Chinese.

CHINCAPIN
Chin"ca*pin, n.

Defn: See Chinquapin.

CHINCH
Chinch, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. chinche, fr. L. cimex.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bedbug (Cimex lectularius).

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bug (Blissus leucopterus), which, in the United States, is
very destructive to grass, wheat, and other grains; -- also called
chiniz, chinch bug, chink bug. It resembles the bedbug in its
disgusting odor.

CHINCHA
Chin"cha, n. Etym: [Cf. Chinchilla.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A south American rodent of the genus Lagotis.

CHINCHE
Chinche, a. Etym: [F. chiche miserly.]

Defn: Parsimonious; niggardly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHINCHERIE
Chinch"er*ie, n.

Defn: Penuriousness. [Obs.]
By cause of his skarsete and chincherie. Caucer.

CHINCHILLA
Chin*chil"la, n. Etym: [Sp.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small rodent (Chinchilla lanigera), of the size of a large
squirrel, remarkable for its fine fur, which is very soft and of a
pearly gray color. It is a native of Peru and Chili.

2. The fur of the chinchilla.

3. A heavy, longnapped, tufted woolen cloth.

CHINCHONA; CHINCONA
Chin*cho"na, Chin*co"na.

Defn: See Cinchona.

CHIN COUGH
Chin" cough". Etym: [For chink cough; cf. As. cincung long laughter,
Scot. kink a violent fit of coughing, akin to MHG. kichen to pant.
Cf. Kinknaust, Cough.]

Defn: Whooping cough.

CHINE
Chine, n. Etym: [Cf. Chink.]

Defn: A chink or cleft; a narrow and deep ravine; as, Shanklin Chine
in the Isle of Wight, a quarter of a mile long and 230 feet deep.
[Prov. Eng.] "The cottage in a chine." J. Ingelow.

CHINE
Chine, n.Etym: [OF. eschine, F. échine, fr. OHG. skina needle,
prickle, shin, G. schiene splint, schienbein shin. For the meaning
cf. L. spina thorn, prickle, or spine, the backbone. Cf. Shin.]

1. The backbone or spine of an animal; the back. "And chine with
rising bristles roughly spread." Dryden.

2. A piece of the backbone of an animal, with the adjoining parts,
cut for cooking.

Note: [See Illust. of Beef.]

3. The edge or rim of a cask, etc., formed by the projecting ends of
the staves; the chamfered end of a stave.

CHINE
Chine, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chined.]

1. To cut through the backbone of; to cut into chine pieces.

2. Too chamfer the ends of a stave and form the chine..

CHINED
Chined, a.

1. Pertaining to, or having, a chine, or backbone; -- used in
composition. Beau. & Fl.

2. Broken in the back. [Obs.]
He's chined, goodman. Beau. & Fl.

CHINESE
Chi"nese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to China; peculiar to China. Chinese paper.
See India paper, under India.
 -- Chinese wax, a snowy-wgite, waxlike substance brought from China.
It is the bleached secretion of certain insects of the family Coccidæ
especially Coccus Sinensis.

CHINESE
Chi*nese", n. sing. & pl.

1. A native or natives of China, or one of that yellow race with
oblique eyelids who live principally in China.

2. sing.

Defn: The language of China, which is monosyllabic.

Note: Chineses was used as a plural by the contemporaries of
Shakespeare and Milton.

CHINESE EXCLUSION ACT
Chinese Exclusion Act.

Defn: Any of several acts forbidding the immigration of Chinese
laborers into the United States, originally from 1882 to 1892 by act
of May 6, 1882, then from 1892 to 1902 by act May 5, 1892. By act of
April 29, 1902, all existing legislation on the subject was reënacted
and continued, and made applicable to the insular possessions of the
United States.

CHINK
Chink, n. Etym: [OE. chine, AS. cine fissure, chink, fr. cinan to
gape; akin to Goth. Keinan to sprout, G. keimen. Cf. Chit.]

Defn: A small cleft, rent, or fissure, of greater length than
breadth; a gap or crack; as, the chinks of wall.
Through one cloudless chink, in a black, stormy sky. Shines out the
dewy morning star. Macaulay.

CHINK
Chink, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chinked; p. pr. & vb. n. Chinking.]

Defn: To crack; to open.

CHINK
Chink, v. t.

1. To cause to open in cracks or fissures.

2. To fill up the chinks of; as, to chink a wall.

CHINK
Chink, n. Etym: [Of imitative origin. Cf. Jingle.]

1. A short, sharp sound, as of metal struck with a slight degree of
violence. "Chink of bell." Cowper.

2. Money; cash. [Cant] "To leave his chink to better hands."
Somerville.

CHINK
Chink, v. t.

Defn: To cause to make a sharp metallic sound, as coins, small pieces
of metal, etc., by bringing them into collision with each other.
Pope.

CHINK
Chink, v. i.

Defn: To make a slight, sharp, metallic sound, as by the collision of
little pieces of money, or other small sonorous bodies. Arbuthnot.

CHINKY
Chink"y, a.

Defn: Full of chinks or fissures; gaping; opening in narrow clefts.
Dryden.

CHINNED
Chinned, a.

Defn: Having a chin; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, short-chinned.

CHINOIDINE
Chi*noid"ine, n. Etym: [NL. chinium quinine (cf. G. & F. china
Peruvian bark) + --oil + -ine.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinodine.

CHINOISERIE
Chi`noi`se*rie" (she`nwa`z'*re"), n. [F.]

Defn: Chinese conduct, art, decoration, or the like; also, a specimen
of Chinese manners, art, decoration, etc.

CHINOLINE
Chin"o*line, n. Etym: [NL. chinium quinine (see Chinoldine) + L.
oleum oil + -ine.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinoline.

CHINONE
Chi"none, n. Etym: [NL. chinium quinine (see Chinoidine.) + -one.]
(Chem.)

Defn: See Quinone.

CHINOOK
Chi*nook", n.

1. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of a tribe of North American Indians now living in the
state of Washington, noted for the custom of flattening their skulls.
Chinooks also called Flathead Indians.

2. A warm westerly wind from the country of the Chinooks, sometimes
experienced on the slope of the Rocky Mountains, in Montana and the
adjacent territory.

3. A jargon of words from various languages (the largest proportion
of which is from that of the Chinooks) generally understood by all
the Indian tribes of the northwestern territories of the United
States.

CHINOOK STATE
Chi*nook" State.

Defn: Washington -- a nickname. See Chinook, n.

CHINQUAPIN
Chin"qua*pin, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A branching, nut-bearing tree or shrub (Castanea pumila) of
North America, from six to twenty feet high, allied to the chestnut.
Also, its small, sweet, edible nat. [Written also chincapin and
chinkapin.] Chinquapin oak, a small shrubby oak (Quercus prinoides)
of the Atlantic States, with edible acorns.
 -- Western Chinquapin, an evergreen shrub or tree (Castanopes
chrysophylla) of the Pacific coast. In California it is a shrub; in
Oregon a tree 30 to 125 feet high.

CHINSE
Chinse, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Chinsed; p. pr. & vb. n. Chinsing.]
(Naut.)

Defn: To thrust oakum into (seams or chinks) with a chisel , the
point of a knife, or a chinsing iron; to calk slightly. Chinsing
iron, a light calking iron.

CHINTZ
Chintz, n.; pl. Chintzes. Etym: [Hindi chint spotted cotton clooth,
chinta spot.]

Defn: Cotton cloth, printed with flowers and other devices, in a
number of different colors, and often glazed. Swift.

CHIOPPINE
Chiop*pine", n.

Defn: Same as Chopine, n.

CHIP
Chip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Chipping.] Etym:
[Cf. G. kippen to cut off the edge, to clip, pare. Cf. Chop to cut.]

1. To cut small pieces from; to diminsh or reduce to shape, by
cutting away a little at a time; to hew. Shak.

2. To break or crack, or crack off a portion of, as of an eggshell in
hatching, or a piece of crockery.

3. To bet, as with chips in the game of poker. To chip in, to
contribute, as to a fund; to share in the risks or expenses of.
[Slang. U. S.]

CHIP
Chip, v. i.

Defn: To break or fly off in small pieces.

CHIP
Chip, n.

1. A piece of wood, stone, or other substance, separated by an ax,
chisel, or cutting instrument.

2. A fragment or piece broken off; a small piece.

3. Wood or Cuban palm leaf split into slips, or straw plaited in a
special manner, for making hats or bonnets.

4. Anything dried up, withered, or without flavor; -- used
contemptuously.

5. One of the counters used in poker and other games.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: The triangular piece of wood attached to the log line. Buffalo
chips. See under Buffalo.
 -- Chip ax, a small ax for chipping timber into shape.
 -- Chip bonnet, Chip hat, a bonnet or a hat made of Chip. See Chip,
n., 3.
 -- A chip off the old block, a child who resembles either of his
parents. [Colloq.] Milton.- Potato chips, Saratoga chips, thin slices
of raw potato fried crisp.

CHIPMUNK
Chip"munk`, n. Etym: [Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A squirrel-like animal of the genus Tamias, sometimes called
the striped squirrel, chipping squirrel, ground squirrel, hackee. The
common species of the United States is the Tamias striatus. [Written
also chipmonk, chipmuck, and chipmuk.]

CHIPPENDALE
Chip"pen*dale, a.

Defn: Designating furniture designed, or like that designed, by
Thomas Chippendale, an English cabinetmaker of the 18th century.
Chippendale furniture was generally of simple but graceful outline
with delicately carved rococo ornamentation, sculptured either in the
solid wood or, in the cheaper specimens, separately and glued on. In
the more elaborate pieces three types are recognized: French
Chippendale, having much detail, like Louis Quatorze and Louis
Quinze; Chinese Chippendale, marked by latticework and pagodalike
pediments; and Gothic Chippendale, attempting to adapt medieval
details. The forms, as of the cabriole and chairbacks, often resemble
Queen Anne. In chairs, the seat is widened at the front, and the back
toward the top widened and bent backward, except in Chinese
Chippendale, in which the backs are usually rectangular. --
Chip"pen*dal*ism (#), n.

It must be clearly and unmistakably understood, then, that, whenever
painted (that is to say, decorated with painted enrichment) or inlaid
furniture is described as Chippendale, no matter where or by whom, it
is a million chances to one that the description is incorrect.
R. D. Benn.

CHIPPER
Chip"per, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Cheep, Chirp.]

Defn: To chirp or chirrup. [ Prov. Eng.] Forby.

CHIPPER
Chip"per, a.

Defn: Lively; cheerful; talkative. [U. S.]

CHIPPEWAYS
Chip"pe*ways, n. pl.; sing. Chippeway. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the northern and
weastern shores of Lake Superior; -- called also Objibways.

CHIPPING
Chip"ping, n.

1. A chip; a piece separated by a cutting or graving instrument; a
fragment.

2. The act or process of cutting or breaking off small pieces, as in
dressing iron with a chisel, or reducing a timber or block of stone
to shape.

3. The breaking off in small pieces of the edges of potter's ware,
porcelain, etc.

CHIPPING BIRD
Chip"ping bird`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The chippy.

CHIPPING SQUIRREL
Chip"ping squir"rel.

Defn: See Chipmunk.

CHIPPY
Chip"py, a.

Defn: Abounding in, or resembling, chips; dry and tasteless.

CHIPPY
Chip"py, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small American sparrow (Spizella socialis), very common near
dwelling; -- also called chipping bird and chipping sparrow, from its
simple note.

CHIPS
Chips, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A ship's carpenter. [Cant.]

CHIRAGRA
Chi*ra"gra, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Gout in the hand.

CHIRAGRICAL
Chi*rag"ric*al, a.

Defn: Having the gout in the hand, or subject to that disease. Sir.
T. Browne.

CHIRETTA
Chi*ret"ta, n. Etym: [Hind. chira\'c6ta.]

Defn: A plant (Agathotes Chirayta) found in Northern India, having
medicinal properties to the gentian, and esteemed as a tonic and
febrifuge.

CHIRK
Chirk, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Chirp, also Creak.]

1. To shriek; to gnash; to utter harsh or shrill cries. [Obs.]
All full of chirkyng was that sorry place. Cheucer.

2. To chirp like a bird. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHIRK
Chirk, v. t.

Defn: To cheer; to enliven; as, to chirk one up. [Colloq. New Eng. ]

CHIRK
Chirk, a. Etym: [From Chirk, v. i.]

Defn: Lively; cheerful; in good spirits. [Colloq. New Eng.]

CHIRM
Chirm, v. i. Etym: [Cf. AS. cyrman, cirman, to cry out. *24 Cf.
Chirp.]

Defn: To chirp or to make a mournful cry, as a bird. [Obs.] Huloet.

CHIROGNOMY
Chi*rog"no*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The art of judging character by the shape and apperance of the
hand.

CHIROGRAPH
Chi"ro*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. (Old. Law)
(a) A writing which, reguiring a counterpart, was engrossed twice on
the same piece of parchment, with a space between, in which was
written the word chirographum, through which the parchment was cut,
and one part given to each party. It answered to what is now called a
charter party.
(b) The last part of a fine of land, commonly called the foot of the
fine. Bouvier.

CHIROGRAPHER
Chi*rog"ra*pher, n.

1. One who practice the art or business of writing or engrossing.

2. See chirographist, 2. Chirographer of fines (Old Eng. Law), an
officer in the court of common pleas, who engrossed fines.

CHIROGRAPHIC; CHIROGRAPHICAL
Chi`ro*graph"ic, Chi`ro*graph"ic*al a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to chirography.

CHIROGRAPHIST
Chi*rog"ra*phist, n.

1. A chirographer; a writer or engrosser.

2. One who tells fortunes by examining the hand.

CHIROGRAPHY
Chi*rog"ra*phy, n.

1. The art of writing or engrossing; handwriting; as, skilled in
chirography.

2. The art of telling fortunes by examining the hand.

CHIROGYMNAST
Chi`ro*gym"nast, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A mechanocal contrivance for exercesing the fingers of a
pianist.

CHIROLOGICAL
Chi`ro*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to chirology.

CHIROLOGIST
Chi*rol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who communicates thoughts by signs made with the hands and
fingers.

CHIROLOGY
Chi*rol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The art or practice of using the manual alphabet or of
communicating thoughts by sings made by the hands and fingers; a
substitute for spoken or written language in intercourse with the
deaf and dumb. See Dactylalogy.

CHIROMANCER
Chi"ro*man`cer, n.

Defn: One who practices chiromancy. Dryden.

CHIROMANCY
Chi"ro*mancy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: The art or practice of foretelling events, or of telling the
fortunes or the disposition of persons by inspecting the hand;
palmistry.

CHIROMANIST; CHIROMANTIST
Chi"ro*man`ist, Chi"ro*man`tist n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A chiromancer.

CHIROMANTIC; CHIROMANTICAL
Chi`ro*man"tic, Chi`ro*man"tic*al a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to chiromancy.

CHIROMONIC
Chi`ro*mon"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to chironomy.

CHIRONOMY
Chi*ron"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The art of moving the hands in oratory or in pantomime; gesture
[Obs.]

CHIROPLAST
Chi"ro*plast, n. Etym: [Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument to guid the hands and fingers of pupils in
playing on the piano, etc.

CHIROPODIST
Chi*rop"o*dist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who treats diseases of the hands and feet; especially, one
who removes corns and bunions.

CHIROPODY
Chirop"ody, n.

Defn: The art of treating diseases of the hands and feet.

CHIROSOPHIST
Chiros"ophist, n. Etym: [Gr. Sophist.]

Defn: A fortune teller.

CHIRP
Chirp, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chirped; p. pr. & vb. n. Chirping.] Etym:
[Of imitative orgin. Cf. Chirk, Chipper, Cheep, Chirm, Chirrup.]

Defn: To make a shop, sharp, cheerful, as of small birds or crickets.

CHIRP
Chirp, n.

Defn: A short, sharp note, as of a bird or insect. "The chirp of
flitting bird." Bryant.

CHIRPER
Chirp"er, n.

Defn: One who chirps, or is cheerful.

CHIRPING
Chirp"ing, a.

Defn: Cheering; enlivening.
He takes his chirping pint, he cracks his jokes. Pope.

CHIRPINGLY
Chirp"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a chirping manner.

CHIRRE
Chirre, v. i. Etym: [Cf. G. girren, AS. corian to murmur, complain.
*24.]

Defn: To coo, as a pigeon. [Obs.]

CHIRRUP
Chir"rup, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chirruped; p. pr. & vb. n. Chirruping.]
Etym: [See Chirp.]

Defn: To quicken or animate by chirping; to cherup.

CHIRRUP
Chir"rup, v. i.

Defn: To chirp. Tennyson.
The criket chirrups on the hearth. Goldsmith.

CHIRRUP
Chir"rup, n.

Defn: The act of chirping; a chirp.
The sparrows' chirrup on the roof. Tennyson.

CHIRRUPY
Chir"rupy, a.

Defn: Cheerful; joyous; chatty.

CHIRURGEON
Chi*rur"geon, n. Etym: [F. chirurgien, from chirurgie surgery, fr.
Gr. Surgeon, Work.]

Defn: A surgeon. [Obs.]

CHIRURGEONLY
Chi*rur"geon*ly, adv.

Defn: Surgically. [Obs.] Shak.

CHIRURGERY
Chi*rur"ger*y, n. Etym: [See Chirurgeon, and cf. Surgery.]

Defn: Surgery. [Obs.]

CHIRURGIC; CHIRURGICAL
Chi*rur"gic, Chirur"gical, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chirurgiquerurgical, L.
Chirurgicus, Gr. Chirurgeon, and cf. Surgical.]

Defn: Surgical [Obs.] "Chirurgical lore" Longfellow.

CHISEL
Chis"el, n. Etym: [OF. chisel, F. ciseau, fr. LL. cisellus, prob. for
caesellus, fr. L. caesus, p. p. of caedere to cut. Cf. Scissors.]

Defn: A tool with a cutting edge on one end of a metal blade, used in
dressing, shaping, or working in timber, stone, metal, etc.; --
usually driven by a mallet or hammer. Cold chisel. See under Cold, a.

CHISEL
Chis"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chiseled, or Chiselled (p. pr. & vb. n.
Chiseling, or Chiselling.] Etym: [Cf. F. ciseler.]

1. To cut, pare, gouge, or engrave with a chisel; as, to chisel a
block of marble into a statue.

2. To cut close, as in a bargain; to cheat. [Slang]

CHISLEU
Chis"leu, n. Etym: [Heb.]

Defn: The ninth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to
a part of November with a part of December.

CHISLEY
Chis"ley, a. Etym: [AS. ceosel gravel or sand. Cf. Chessom.]

Defn: Having a large admixture of small pebbles or gravel; -- said of
a soil. Gardner.

CHIT
Chit, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. ci shoot, sprig, from the same root as cinan
to yawn. See Chink a cleft.]

1. The embryo or the growing bud of a plant; a shoot; a sprout; as,
the chits of Indian corn or of potatoes.

2. A child or babe; as, a forward chit; also, a young, small, or
insignificant person or animal.
A little chit of a woman. Thackeray.

3. An excrescence on the body, as a wart. [Obs.]

4. A small tool used in cleaving laths. Knight.

CHIT
Chit, v. i.

Defn: To shoot out; to sprout.
I have known barley chit in seven hours after it had been thrown
forth. Mortimer.

CHIT
Chit, 3d sing. of Chide.

Defn: Chideth. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHITCHAT
Chit"chat, n. Etym: [From Chat, by way of reduplication.]

Defn: Familiar or trifling talk; prattle.

CHITIN
Chi"tin, n. Etym: [See Chiton.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part of
the outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various other
invertebrates; entomolin.

CHITINIZATION
Chi`ti*ni*za"tion, n.

Defn: The process of becoming chitinous.

CHITINOUS
Chi"ti*nous, a.

Defn: Having the nature of chitin; consisting of, or containing,
chitin.

CHITON
Chi"ton, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. An under garment among the ancient Greeks, nearly representing the
modern shirt.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of gastropod mollusks, with a shell composed of
eight movable dorsal plates. See Polyplacophora.

CHITTER
Chit"ter, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Chatter.]

1. To chirp in a tremulous manner, as a bird. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To shiver or chatter with cold. [Scot.] Burns.

CHITTERLING
Chit"ter*ling, n.

Defn: The frill to the breast of a shirt, which when ironed out
resembled the small entrails. See Chitterlings. [Obs.] Gascoigne.

CHITTERLINGS
Chit"ter*lings, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. AS. cwiÞ womb, Icel. kvith, Goth.
qiÞus, belly, womb, stomach, G. kutteln chitterlings.] (Cookery)

Defn: The smaller intestines of swine, etc., fried for food.

CHITTRA
Chit"tra, n. Etym: [Native Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The axis deer of India.

CHITTY
Chit"ty, a.

1. Full of chits or sprouts.

2. Childish; like a babe. [Obs.]

CHIVACHIE
Chiv"a*chie`, n. Etym: [OF. chevauchie, chevauchée; of the same
origin as E. cavalcade.]

Defn: A cavalry raid; hence, a military expedition. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHIVALRIC
Chiv"al*ric, a. Etym: [See Chivalry.]

Defn: Relating to chivalry; knightly; chivalrous.

CHIVALROUS
Chiv"al*rous, a. Etym: [OF. chevalerus, chevalereus, fr. chevalier.
See Chivalry.]

Defn: Pertaining to chivalry or knight-errantry; warlike; heroic;
gallant; high-spirited; high-minded; magnanimous.
In brave pursuit of chivalrous emprise. Spenser.

CHIVALROUSLY
Chiv"al*rous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a chivalrous manner; gallantly; magnanimously.

CHIVALRY
Chiv"al*ry, n. Etym: [F. chevalerie, fr. chevalier knight, OF.,
horseman. See Chevalier, and cf. Cavalry.]

1. A body or order of cavaliers or knights serving on horseback;
illustrious warriors, collectively; cavalry. "His Memphian chivalry."
Milton.
By his light Did all the chivalry of England move, To do brave acts.
Shak.

2. The dignity or system of knighthood; the spirit, usages, or
manners of knighthood; the practice of knight-errantry. Dryden.

3. The qualifications or character of knights, as valor, dexterity in
arms, courtesy, etc.
The glory of our Troy this day doth lie On his fair worth and single
chivalry. Shak.

4. (Eng. Law)

Defn: A tenure of lands by knight's service; that is, by the
condition of a knight's performing service on horseback, or of
performing some noble or military service to his lord.

5. Exploit. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. Court of chivalry, a court formerly
held before the lord high constable and earl marshal of England as
judges, having cognizance of contracts and other matters relating to
deeds of arms and war. Blackstone.

CHIVARRAS; CHIVARROS
Chi*var"ras,  Chi*var"ros, n. pl. [Mex. Sp.]

Defn: Leggings. [Mex. & Southwestern U. S.]

CHIVE
Chive, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A filament of a stamen. [Obs.]

CHIVE
Chive, n. Etym: [F. cive, fr. L. cepa, caepa, onion. Cf. Cives,
Cibol.] (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial plant (Allium Schoenoprasum), allied to the onion.
The young leaves are used in omelets, etc. [Written also cive.]

CHIVY
Chiv"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chivied; p. pr. & vb. n. Chivying.] Etym:
[Cf. Chevy.]

Defn: To goad, drive, hunt, throw, or pitch. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens.

CHLAMYDATE
Chlam"y*date, a. Etym: [L. chlamydatus dressed in a military cloak.
See Chlamys.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a mantle; -- applied to certain gastropods.

CHLAMYPHORE
Chlam"y*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small South American edentate (Chlamyphorus truncatus, and C.
retusus) allied to the armadillo. It is covered with a leathery shell
or coat of mail, like a cloak, attached along the spine.

CHLAMYS
Chla"mys, n.; pl. E. Chlamyses, L. Chlamydes. Etym: [L., from Gr.

Defn: A loose and flowing outer garment, worn by the ancient Greeks;
a kind of cloak.

CHLOASMA
Chlo*as"ma, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A cutaneous affection characterized by yellow or yellowish
brown pigmented spots.

CHLORAL
Chlo"ral, n. Etym: [Chlorine + alcohol.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless oily liquid, CCl3.CHO, of a pungent odor and harsh
taste, obtained by the action of chlorine upon ordinary or ethyl
alcohol.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Chloral hydrate. Chloral hydrate, a white crystalline
substance, obtained by treating chloral with water. It produces sleep
when taken internally or hypodermically; -- called also chloral.

CHLORALAMIDE
Chlo"ral*am`ide, n. Etym: [Chloral + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of chloral and formic amide used to produce sleep.

CHLORALISM
Chlo"ral*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition of the system resulting from excessive use
of chloral.

CHLORALUM
Chlor`al"um, n. Etym: [Chlorine + aluminium.]

Defn: An impure aqueous solution of chloride of aluminium, used as an
antiseptic and disinfectant.

CHLORANIL
Chlor`an"il, n. Etym: [Chlorine + aniline.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow crystalline substance, C6Cl4.O2, regarded as a
derivative of quinone, obtained by the action of chlorine on certain
benzene derivatives, as aniline.

CHLORATE
Chlo"rate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chlorate. See Chlorine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of chloric acid; as, chlorate of potassium.

CHLORAURATE
Chlor`au"rate, n. Etym: [Chlorine + aurate.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Aurochloride.

CHLORHYDRIC
Chlor`hy"dric, a. Etym: [Chlorine + hydrogen + -ic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Hydrochloric.

CHLORHYDRIN
Chlor`hy"drin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of compounds formed from certain polybasic
alcohols (and especially glycerin) by the substitution of chlorine
for one or more hydroxyl groups.

CHLORIC
Chlo"ric, a. Etym: [From Chlorine.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, chlorine; -- said of those
compounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of five, or
the next to its highest; as, chloric acid, HClO3. Chloric ether
(Chem.), ethylene dichloride. See Dutch liquid, under Dutch.

CHLORIDATE
Chlo"ri*date, v.t.

Defn: To treat or prepare with a chloride, as a plate with chloride
of silver, for the purposes of photography. R. Hunt.

CHLORIDE
Chlo"ride, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of chlorine with another element or radical;
as, chloride of sodium (common salt). Chloride of ammonium, sal
ammoniac.
 -- Chloride of lime, bleaching powder; a grayish white substance,
CaOClcalcium hypochlorite. See Hypochlorous acid, under Hypochlorous.
 -- Mercuric chloride, corrosive sublimate.

CHLORIDIC
Chlo*rid"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chloride; containing a chloride.

CHLORIDIZE
Chlo"rid*ize, v. t.

Defn: See Chloridate.

CHLORIMETRY
Chlo*rim"e*try, n.

Defn: See Chlorometry.

CHLORINATE
Chlo"rin*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chlorinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chlorinating.] (Chem.)

Defn: To treat, or cause to combine, with chlorine.

CHLORINATION
Chlo`ri*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of subjecting anything to the action of
chlorine; especially, a process for the extraction of gold by
exposure of the auriferous material to chlorine gas.

CHLORINE
Chlo"rine, n. Etym: [Gr. Yellow.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the elementary substances, commonly isolated as a
greenish yellow gas, two and one half times as heavy as air, of an
intensely disagreeable suffocating odor, and exceedingly poisonous.
It is abundant in nature, the most important compound being common
salt. It is powerful oxidizing, bleaching, and disinfecting agent.
Symbol Cl. Atomic weight, 35.4. Chlorine family, the elements
fluorine, chlorine, bromine, and iodine, called the halogens, and
classed together from their common peculiariries.

CHLORIODIC
Chlor`i*od"ic, a.

Defn: Compounded of chlorine and iodine; containing chlorine and
iodine.

CHLORIODINE
Chlor`i"o*dine, n.

Defn: A compound of chlorine and iodine. [R.]

CHLORITE
Chlo"rite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: The name of a group of minerals, usually of a green color and
micaceous to granular in structure. They are hydrous silicates of
alumina, iron, and magnesia. Chlorite slate, a schistose or slaty
rock consisting of alumina, iron, and magnesia.

CHLORITE
Chlo"rite, n. Etym: [Chlorous + -ite.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any salt of chlorous acid; as, chlorite of sodium.

CHLORITIC
Chlo*rit"ic, a. Etym: [From 1st Chlorite.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, chlorite; as, chloritic sand.

CHLORMETHANE
Chlor`meth"ane, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless gas, CH3Cl, of a sweet odor, easily condensed to a
liquid; -- called also methyl chloride.

CHLORO-
Chlo"ro-. (Chem.)

Defn: A prefix denoting that chlorine is an ingredient in the
substance named.

CHLOROCRUORIN
Chlo`ro*cru"o*rin, n. Etym: [Gr. cruorin.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A green substance, supposed to be the cause of the green color
of the blood in some species of worms. Ray Lankester.

CHLORODYNE
Chlo"ro*dyne, n. Etym: [From chlorine, in imitation of anodyne.]
(Med.)

Defn: A patent anodyne medicine, containing opium, chloroform, Indian
hemp, etc.

CHLOROFORM
Chlo"ro*form, n. Etym: [Chlorine + formyl, it having been regarded as
a trichloride of this radical: cf. F. chloroforme, G. chloroform.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A colorless volatile liquid, CHCl3, having an ethereal odor and
a sweetish taste, formed by treating alcohol with chlorine and an
alkali. It is a powerful solvent of wax, resin, etc., and is
extensively used to produce anæsthesia in surgical operations; also
externally, to alleviate pain.

CHLOROFORM
Chlo"ro*form, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chloroformed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chloroforming.]

Defn: To treat with chloroform, or to place under its influence.

CHLOROLEUCITE
Chlo`ro*leu"cite, n. Etym: [Gr. leucite.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Chloroplastid.

CHLOROMETER
Chlo*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chloromètre. See Chlorine, and -
meter.]

Defn: An instrument to test the decoloring or bleaching power of
chloride of lime.

CHLOROMETRY
Chlo*rom"e*try, n.

Defn: The process of testing the bleaching power of any combination
of chlorine.

CHLOROPAL
Chlo*ro"pal, n. Etym: [Gr. opal.] (Min.)

Defn: A massive mineral, greenish in color, and opal-like in
appearance. It is essentially a hydrous silicate of iron.

CHLOROPEPTIC
Chlo`ro*pep"tic, a. Etym: [Chlorine + peptic.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an acid more generally called pepsin-
hydrochloric acid.

CHLOROPHANE
Chlo"ro*phane, n. Etym: [Gr. chlorophane.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of fluor spar, which, when heated, gives a beautiful
emerald green light.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The yellowish green pigment in the inner segment of the cones
of the retina. See Chromophane.

CHLOROPHYLL
Chlo"ro*phyll, n. Etym: [Gr. chlorophylle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Literally, leaf green; a green granular matter formed in the
cells of the leaves (and other parts exposed to light) of plants, to
which they owe their green color, and through which all ordinary
assimilation of plant food takes place. Similar chlorophyll granules
have been found in the tissues of the lower animals. [Written also
chlorophyl.]

CHLOROPLAST
Chlo"ro*plast, n. [Pref. chloro-+ Gr.  to mold, form.] (Biol.)

Defn: A plastid containing chlorophyll, developed only in cells
exposed to the light. Chloroplasts are minute flattened granules,
usually occurring in great numbers in the cytoplasm near the cell
wall, and consist of a colorless ground substance saturated with
chlorophyll pigments. Under light of varying intensity they exhibit
phototactic movements. In animals chloroplasts occur only in certain
low forms.

CHLOROPLASTID
Chlo`ro*plas"tid, n. Etym: [Gr. plastid.] (Bot.)

Defn: A granule of chlorophyll; -- also called chloroleucite.

CHLOROPLATINIC
Chlo`ro*pla*tin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See Platinichloric.

CHLOROSIS
Chlo*ro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. chlorose.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: The green sickness; an anæmic disease of young women,
characterized by a greenish or grayish yellow hue of the skin,
weakness, palpitation, etc.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A disease in plants, causing the flowers to turn green or the
leaves to lose their normal green color.

CHLOROTIC
Chlo*rot"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chlorotique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or affected by, chlorosis.

CHLOROUS
Chlo"rous, a. Etym: [See Chlorine.]

1. Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chlorine; -- said of those
compounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of three,
the next lower than in chloric compounds; as, chlorous acid, HClO2.

2. (Chem. Physics)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the electro-negative character of
chlorine; hence, electro-negative; -- opposed to basylous or zincous.
[Obs.]

CHLORPICRIN
Chlor`pi"crin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A heavy, colorless liquid, CCl3.NO2, of a strong pungent odor,
obtained by subjecting picric acid to the action of chlorine.
[Written also chloropikrin.]

CHLORURET
Chlo"ru*ret, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chlorure.] (Chem.)

Defn: A chloride. [Obs.]

CHOAK
Choak, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Choke.

CHOANOID
Cho"a*noid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Funnel-shaped; -- applied particularly to a hollow muscle
attached to the ball of the eye in many reptiles and mammals.

CHOCARD
Cho"card, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The chough.

CHOCK
Chock, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Chocking.]

Defn: To stop or fasten, as with a wedge, or block; to scotch; as, to
chock a wheel or cask.

CHOCK
Chock, v. i.

Defn: To fill up, as a cavity. "The woodwork . . . exactly chocketh
into joints." Fuller.

CHOCK
Chock, n.

1. A wedge, or block made to fit in any space which it is desired to
fill, esp. something to steady a cask or other body, or prevent it
from moving, by fitting into the space around or beneath it.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A heavy casting of metal, usually fixed near the gunwale. It
has two short horn-shaped arms curving inward, between which ropes or
hawsers may pass for towing, mooring, etc.

CHOCK
Chock, adv. (Naut.)

Defn: Entirely; quite; as, chock home; chock aft.

CHOCK
Chock, v. t. Etym: [F. choquer. Cf. Shock, v. t.]

Defn: To encounter. [Obs.]

CHOCK
Chock, n.

Defn: An encounter. [Obs.]

CHOCKABLOCK
Chock"a*block, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Hoisted as high as the tackle will admit; brought close
together, as the two blocks of a tackle in hoisting.

CHOCK-FULL
Chock"-full`, a.

Defn: Quite full; choke-full.

CHOCOLATE
Choc"o*late, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. the Mexican name of the cacao. Cf.
Cacao, Cocoa.]

1. A paste or cake composed of the roasted seeds of the Theobroma
Cacao ground and mixed with other ingredients, usually sugar, and
cinnamon or vanilla.

2. The beverage made by dissolving a portion of the paste or cake in
boiling water or milk. Chocolate house, a house in which customers
may be served with chocolate.
 -- Chocolate nut. See Cacao.

CHOCTAWS
Choc"taws, n. pl.

Defn: ; sing. Choctaw. (Ethnol.) A tribe of North American Indians
(Southern Appalachian), in early times noted for their pursuit of
agriculture, and for living at peace with the white settlers. They
are now one of the civilized tribes of the Indian Territory.

CHODE
Chode,

Defn: the old imp. of chide. See Chide.

CHOGSET
Chog"set, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cunner.

CHOICE
Choice, n. Etym: [OE. chois, OF. chois, F. choix, fr. choisir to
choose; of German origin; cf. Goth. kausjan to examine, kiusan to
choose, examine, G. kiesen. *46. Cf. Choose.]

1. Act of choosing; the voluntary act of selecting or separating from
two or more things that which is preferred; the determination of the
mind in preferring one thing to another; election.

2. The power or opportunity of choosing; option.
Choice there is not, unless the thing which we take be so in our
power that we might have refused it. Hooker.

3. Care in selecting; judgment or skill in distinguishing what is to
be preferred, and in giving a preference; discrimination.
I imagine they [the apothegms of Cæsar] were collected with judgment
and choice. Bacon.

4. A sufficient number to choose among. Shak.

5. The thing or person chosen; that which is approved and selected in
preference to others; selection.
The common wealth is sick of their own choice. Shak.

6. The best part; that which is preferable.
The flower and choice Of many provinces from bound to bound. Milton.
To make a choice of, to choose; to select; to separate and take in
preference.

Syn. - See Volition, Option.

CHOICE
Choice, a. [Compar. Choicer; superl. Choicest.]

1. Worthly of being chosen or preferred; select; superior; precious;
valuable.
My choicest hours of life are lost. Swift.

2. Preserving or using with care, as valuable; frugal; -- used with
of; as, to be choice of time, or of money.

3. Selected with care, and due attention to preference; deliberately
chosen.
Choice word measured phrase. Wordsworth.

Syn. - Select; precious; exquisite; uncommon; rare; chary; careful/

CHOICEFUL
Choice"ful, a.

Defn: Making choices; fickle. [Obs.]
His choiceful sense with every change doth fit. Spenser.

CHOICELY
Choice"ly, adv.

1. With care in choosing; with nice regard to preference. "A band of
men collected choicely, from each county some." Shak.

2. In a preferable or excellent manner; excellently; eminently.
"Choicely good." Walton.

CHOICENESS
Choice"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being of particular value or worth; nicely;
excellence.

CHOIR
Choir, n. Etym: [OE. quer, OF. cuer, F. choeur, fr. L. chorus a
choral dance, chorus, choir, fr. Gr. hortus garden, and E. yard. See
Chorus.]

1. A band or organized company of singers, especially in church
service. [Formerly written also quire.]

2. That part of a church appropriated to the singers.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: The chancel. Choir organ (Mus.), one of the three or five
distinct organs included in the full organ, each separable from the
rest, but all controlled by one performer; a portion of the full
organ, complete in itself, and more practicable for ordinary service
and in the accompanying of the vocal choir.
 -- Choir screen, Choir wall (Arch.), a screen or low wall separating
the choir from the aisles.
 -- Choir service, the service of singing performed by the choir. T.
Warton.

CHOKE
Choke, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Choked; p. pr. & vb. n. Choking.] Etym:
[OE. cheken, choken; cf. AS. aceocian to suffocate, Icel. koka to
gulp, E. chincough, cough.]

1. To render unable to breathe by filling, pressing upon, or
squeezing the windpipe; to stifle; to suffocate; to strangle.
With eager feeding food doth choke the feeder. Shak.

2. To obstruct by filling up or clogging any passage; to block up.
Addison.

3. To hinder or check, as growth, expansion, progress, etc.; to
stifle.
Oats and darnel choke the rising corn. Dryden.

4. To affect with a sense of strangulation by passion or strong
feeling. "I was choked at this word." Swift.

5. To make a choke, as in a cartridge, or in the bore of the barrel
of a shotgun. To choke off, to stop a person in the execution of a
purpose; as, to choke off a speaker by uproar.

CHOKE
Choke, v. i.

1. To have the windpipe stopped; to have a spasm of the throat,
caused by stoppage or irritation of the windpipe; to be strangled.

2. To be checked, as if by choking; to stick.
The words choked in his throat. Sir W. Scott.

CHOKE
Choke, n.

1. A stoppage or irritation of the windpipe, producing the feeling of
strangulation.

2. (Gun.)
(a) The tied end of a cartridge.
(b) A constriction in the bore of a shotgun, case of a rocket, etc.

CHOKEBERRY
Choke"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The small apple-shaped or pear-shaped fruit of an American
shrub (Pyrus arbutifolia) growing in damp thickets; also, the shrub.

CHOKEBORE
Choke"bore`, n.

1. In a shotgun, a bore which is tapered to a slightly smaller
diameter at a short distance (usually 2½ to 3 inches) to the rear of
the muzzle, in order to prevent the rapid dispersion of the shot.

2.  A shotgun that is made with such a bore.

CHOKEBORE
Choke"bore`, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Chokebored; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chokeboring.]

Defn: To provide with a chokebore.

CHOKECHERRY
Choke"cher`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The astringent fruit of a species of wild cherry (Prunus
Virginiana); also, the bush or tree which bears such fruit.

CHOKE DAMP
Choke" damp`.

Defn: See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.

CHOKEDAR
Cho`ke*dar", n. Etym: [Hindi chauki-dar.]

Defn: A watchman; an officer of customs or police. [India]

CHOKE-FULL
Choke"-full`, a.

Defn: Full to the brim; quite full; chock-full.

CHOKE PEAR
Choke" pear`.

1. A kind of pear that has a rough, astringent taste, and is
swallowed with difficulty, or which contracts the mucous membrane of
the mouth.

2. A sarcasm by which one is put to silence; anything that can not be
answered. [Low] S. Richardson.

CHOKER
Chok"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, chokes.

2. A stiff wide cravat; a stock. [Slang]

CHOKE-STRAP
Choke"-strap`, n. (Saddlery)

Defn: A strap leading from the bellyband to the lower part of the
collar, to keep the collar in place.

CHOKING
Chok"ing, a.

1. That chokes; producing the feeling of strangulation.

2. Indistinct in utterance, as the voice of a person affected with
strong emotion.

CHOKING COIL
Choking coil. (Elec.)

Defn: A coil of small resistance and large inductance, used in an
alternating-current circuit to impede or throttle the current, or to
change its phase; --called also reactance coil or reactor, these
terms being now preferred in engineering usage.

CHOKY; CHOKEY
Chok"y Chok"ey, a.

1. Tending to choke or suffocate, or having power to suffocate.

2. Inclined to choke, as a person affected with strong emotion. "A
deep and choky voice." Aytoun.
The allusion to his mother made Tom feel rather chokey. T. Hughes.

CHOLAEMAA
Cho*læ"ma*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A disease characterized by severe nervous symptoms, dependent
upon the presence of the constituents of the bile in the blood.

CHOLAGOGUE
Chol"a*gogue, a. Etym: [Gr. cholagogue.] (Med.)

Defn: Promoting the discharge of bile from the system.
 -- n.

Defn: An agent which promotes the discharge of bile from the system.

CHOLATE
Cho"late, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of cholic acid; as, sodium cholate.

CHOLECYSTIS
Chol`e*cys"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The gall bladder.

CHOLECYSTOTOMY
Chol`e*cys*tot"o*my, n. Etym: [Cholecystis + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of making an opening in the gall bladder, as for
the removal of a gallstone.

CHOLEDOLOGY
Chol`e*dol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy. Cf. F. cholédologie.] (Med.)

Defn: A treatise on the bile and bilary organs. Dunglison.

Note: Littré says that the word cholédologie is absolutely barbarous,
there being no Greek word cholology.

CHOLEIC
Cho*le"ic, a. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, bile; as, choleic acid.

CHOLER
Chol"er, n. Etym: [OE. coler, F. colère anger, L. cholera a bilious
complaint, fr. Gr. Gall, and cf. Cholera.]

1. The bile; -- formerly supposed to be the seat and cause of
irascibility. [Obs.]
His [Richard Hooker's] complexion . . . was sanguine, with a mixture
of choler; and yet his motion was slow. I. Warton.

2. Irritation of the passions; anger; wrath.
He is rash and very sudden in choler. Shak.

CHOLERA
Chol"er*a, n. Etym: [L., a bilious disease. See Choler.] (Med.)

Defn: One of several diseases affecting the digestive and intestinal
tract and more or less dangerous to life, esp. the one commonly
called Asiatic cholera. Asiatic cholera, a malignant and rapidly
fatal disease, originating in Asia and frequently epidemic in the
more filthy sections of other lands, to which the germ or specific
poison may have been carried. It is characterized by diarrhea, rice-
water evacuations, vomiting, cramps, pinched expression, and
lividity, rapidly passing into a state of collapse, followed by
death, or by a stage of reaction of fever.
 -- Cholera bacillus. See Comma bacillus.
 -- Cholera infantum, a dangerous summer disease, of infants, caused
by hot weather, bad air, or poor milk, and especially fatal in large
cities.
 -- Cholera morbus, a disease characterized by vomiting and purging,
with gripings and cramps, usually caused by imprudence in diet or by
gastrointestinal disturbance.
 -- Chicken cholera. See under Chicken.
 -- Hog cholera. See under Hog.
 -- Sporadic cholera, a disease somewhat resembling the Asiatic
cholera, but originating where it occurs, and rarely becoming
epidemic.

CHOLERAIC
Chol`er*a"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to, or resulting from, or resembling, cholera.

CHOLERIC
Chol"er*ic, a. Etym: [L. cholericus, Gr. cholérique.]

1. Abounding with, or producing choler, or bile. Dryden.

2. Easily irritated; irascible; inclined to anger.

3. Angry; indicating anger; excited by anger. "Choleric speech." Sir
W. Raleigh. Choleric temperament, the bilious temperament.

CHOLERICLY
Chol"er*ic*ly, adv.

Defn: In a choleric manner; angrily.

CHOLERIFORM
Chol"er*i*form`, a. Etym: [Cholera + -form.]

Defn: Resembling cholera.

CHOLERINE
Chol"er*ine, n. (Med.)
(a) The precursory symptoms of cholera.
(b) The first stage of epidemic cholera.
(c) A mild form of cholera.

CHOLEROID
Chol"er*oid, a. Etym: [Cholera + -oid.]

Defn: Choleriform.

CHOLESTERIC
Cho`les*ter"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cholestérique.]

Defn: Pertaining to cholesterin, or obtained from it; as, cholesteric
acid. Ure.

CHOLESTERIN
Cho*les"ter*in, n. Etym: [Gr. cholestérine. See Stearin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, fatty, crystalline substance, tasteless and odorless,
found in animal and plant products and tissue, and especially in
nerve tissue, in the bile, and in gallstones.

CHOLIAMB; CHOLIAMBIC
Cho"li*amb, Cho`li*am"bic, n. Etym: [L. choliambus, Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: A verse having an iambus in the fifth place, and a spondee in
the sixth or last.

CHOLIC; CHOLINIC
Chol"ic, Cho*lin"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the bile. Cholic acid (Chem.),
a complex organic acid found as a natural constituent of taurocholic
and glycocholic acids in the bile, and extracted as a resinous
substance, convertible under the influence of ether into white
crystals.

CHOLINE
Cho"line, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: See Neurine.

CHOLOCHROME
Chol"o*chrome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: See Bilirubin.

CHOLOPHAEIN
Chol`o*phæ"in, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: See Bilirubin.

CHOLTRY
Chol"try, n.

Defn: A Hindoo caravansary.

CHOMAGE
Cho`mage", n. [F. chomage.]

1.

Defn: Stoppage; cessation (of labor).

2.  A standing still or idle (of mills, factories, etc.).

CHOMP
Chomp, v. i.

Defn: To chew loudly and greedily; to champ. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.
S.] Halliwell.

CHONDRIFICATION
Chon`dri*fi*ca"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: Formation of, or conversion into, cartilage.

CHONDRIFY
Chon"dri*fy, v. t. & i. Etym: [Gr. -fy.]

Defn: To convert, or be converted, into cartilage.

CHONDRIGEN
Chon"dri*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The chemical basis of cartilage, converted by long boiling in
water into a gelatinous body called chondrin.

CHONDRIGENOUS
Chon*drig"e*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. -genous.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Affording chondrin.

CHONDRIN
Chon"drin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, amorphous, nitrogenous substance, tasteless and
odorless, formed from cartilaginous tissue by long-continued action
of boiling water. It is similar to gelatin, and is a large ingredient
of commercial gelatin.

CHONDRITE
Chon"drite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A meteoric stone characterized by the presence of chondrules.

CHONDRITIC
Chon*drit"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Granular; pertaining to, or having the granular structure
characteristic of, the class of meteorites called chondrites.

CHONDRITIS
Chon*dri"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflammation of cartilage.

CHONDRO-
Chon"dro-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form meaning a grain, granular, granular cartilage,
cartilaginous; as, the chondrocranium, the cartilaginous skull of the
lower vertebrates and of embryos.

CHONDRODITE
Chon"dro*dite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A fluosilicate of magnesia and iron, yellow to red in color,
often occurring in granular form in a crystalline limestone.

CHONDROGANOIDEA
Chon`dro*ga*noi"de*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ganoidei. See Ganoid.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so
called on account of their cartilaginous skeleton.

CHONDROGEN
Chon"dro*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Same as Chondrigen.

CHONDROGENESIS
Chon`dro*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. genesis.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The development of cartilage.

CHONDROID
Chon"droid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Resembling cartilage.

CHONDROLOGY
Chon*drol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. chondrologie.] (Anat.)

Defn: The science which treats of cartilages. Dunglison.

CHONDROMA
Chon*dro"ma, n.; pl. Chondromata. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oma.]

Defn: A cartilaginous tumor or growth.

CHONDROMETER
Chon*drom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: A steelyard for weighting grain.

CHONDROPTERYGIAN
Chon*drop`ter*yg"i*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chondropterygien.]

Defn: Having a cartilaginous skeleton.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Chondropterygii.

CHONDROPTERYGII
Chon*drop`te*ryg"i*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of fishes, characterized by cartilaginous fins and
skeleton. It includes both ganoids (sturgeons, etc.) and selachians
(sharks), but is now often restricted to the latter. [Written also
Chondropterygia.]

CHONDROSTEI
Chon*dros"te*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so named
because the skeleton is cartilaginous.

CHONDROTOMY
Chon*drot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The dissection of cartilages.

CHONDRULE
Chon"drule, n. Etym: [Dim. from Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A peculiar rounded granule of some mineral, usually enstatite
or chrysolite, found imdedded more or less aboundantly in the mass of
many meteoric stones, which are hence called chondrites.

CHOOSE
Choose, v. t. [imp. Chose; p. p. Chosen, Chose (Obs.); p. pr. & vb.
n. Choosing.] Etym: [OE. chesen, cheosen, AS. ceósan; akin to OS.
kiosan, D. kiezen, G. kiesen, Icel. kjosa, Goth. kiusan, L. gustare
to taste, Gr. jush to enjoy. *46. Cf. Choice, 2d Gust.]

1. To make choice of; to select; to take by way of preference from
two or more objects offered; to elect; as, to choose the least of two
evils.
Choose me for a humble friend. Pope.

2. To wish; to desire; to prefer. [Colloq.]
The landlady now returned to know if we did not choose a more genteel
apartment. Goldsmith.
To choose sides. See under Side.

Syn. - To select; prefer; elect; adopt; follow.
 -- To Choose, Prefer, Elect. To choose is the generic term, and
denotes to take or fix upon by an act of the will, especially in
accordance with a decision of the judgment. To prefer is to choose or
favor one thing as compared with, and more desirable than, another,
or more in accordance with one's tastes and feelings. To elect is to
choose or select for some office, employment, use, privilege, etc.,
especially by the concurrent vote or voice of a sufficient number of
electors. To choose a profession; to prefer private life to a public
one; to elect members of Congress.

CHOOSE
Choose, v. i.

1. To make a selection; to decide.
They had only to choose between implicit obedience and open
rebellion. Prescott.

2. To do otherwise. "Can I choose but smile" Pope. Can not choose
but, must necessarily.
Thou canst not choose but know who I am. Shak.

CHOOSER
Choos"er, n.

Defn: One who chooses; one who has the power or right of choosing; an
elector. Burke.

CHOP
Chop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chopped; p. pr. & vb. n. Chopping.] Etym:
[Cf. LG. & D. kappen, Dan. kappe, Sw. kappa. Cf. Chap to crack.]

1. To cut by striking repeatedly with a sharp instrument; to cut into
pieces; to mince; -- often with up.

2. To sever or separate by one more blows of a sharp instrument; to
divide; -- usually with off or down.
Chop off your hand, and it to the king. Shak.

3. To seize or devour greedily; -- with up. [Obs.]
Upon the opening of his mouth he drops his breakfast, which the fox
presently chopped up. L'estrange.

CHOP
Chop, v. i.

1. To make a quick strike, or repeated strokes, with an ax or other
sharp instrument.

2. To do something suddenly with an unexpected motion; to catch or
attempt to seize.
Out of greediness to get both, he chops at the shadow, and loses the
substance. L'Estrange.

3. To interrupt; -- with in or out.
This fellow interrupted the sermon, even suddenly chopping in.
Latimer.

CHOP
Chop, v. t. Etym: [Cf. D. koopen to buy. See Cheapen, v. t., and cf.
Chap, v. i., to buy.]

1. To barter or truck.

2. To exchange; substitute one thing for another.
We go on chopping and changing our friends. L'Estrange.
To chop logic, to dispute with an affected use of logical terms; to
argue sophistically.

CHOP
Chop, v. i.

1. To purchase by way of truck.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To vary or shift suddenly; as, the wind chops about.

3. To wrangle; to altercate; to bandy words.
Let not the counsel at the bar chop with the judge. Bacon.

CHOP
Chop, n.

Defn: A change; a vicissitude. Marryat.

CHOP
Chop, v. t. & i.

Defn: To crack. See Chap, v. t. & i.

CHOP
Chop, n.

1. The act of chopping; a stroke.

2. A piece chopped off; a slice or small piece, especially of meat;
as, a mutton chop.

3. A crack or cleft. See Chap.

CHOP
Chop, n. Etym: [See Chap.]

1. A jaw of an animal; -- commonly in the pl. See Chops.

2. A movable jaw or cheek, as of a wooden vise.

3. The land at each side of the mouth of a river, harbor, or channel;
as, East Chop or West Chop. See Chops.

CHOP
Chop, n. Etym: [Chin. & Hind. chap stamp, brand.]

1. Quality; brand; as, silk of the first chop.

2. A permit or clearance. Chop dollar, a silver dollar stamped to
attest its purity.
 -- chop of tea, a number of boxes of the same make and quality of
leaf.
 -- Chowchow chop. See under Chowchow.
 -- Grand chop, a ship's port clearance. S. W. Williams.

CHOPBOAT
Chop"boat`, n. Etym: [Chin. chop sort, quality.]

Defn: A licensed lighter employed in the transportation of goods to
and from vessels. [China] S. W. Williams.

CHOPCHURCH
Chop"church`, n. Etym: [See Chop to barter.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: An exchanger or an exchange of benefices. [Cant]

CHOPFALLEN
Chop`fall`en, a.

Defn: Having the lower chop or jaw depressed; hence, crestfallen;
dejected; dispirited;downcast. See Chapfallen.

CHOPHOUSE
Chop"house`, n.

Defn: A house where chops, etc., are sold; an eating house.
The freedom of a chophouse. W. Irving.

CHOPHOUSE
Chop"house`, n. Etym: [See Chop quality.]

Defn: A customhouse where transit duties are levied. [China] S. W.
Williams.

CHOPIN
Chop"in, n. Etym: [F. chopine, fr. G. schoppen.]

Defn: A liquid measure formerly used in France and Great Britain,
varying from half a pint to a wine quart.

CHOPIN
Chop"in, n.

Defn: See Chopine.

CHOPINE
Cho*pine", n. Etym: [Cf. OF. chapin, escapin, Sp. chapin, Pg.
chapim.]




