{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
CHAPERON\
Chap"er*on, n. Etym: [F. chaperon. See Chape, Cape, Cap.]\
\
1. A hood; especially, an ornamental or an official hood.\
His head and face covered with a chaperon, out of which there are but\
two holes to look through. Howell.\
\
2. A divice placed on the foreheads of horses which draw the hearse\
in pompous funerals.\
\
3. A matron who accompanies a young lady in public, for propriety, or\
as a guide and protector.\
\
CHAPERON\
Chap"er*on, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chaperoned; p. pr. & vb. n.\
Chaperoning.] Etym: [Cf. F. chaperonner, fr. chaperon.]\
\
Defn: To attend in public places as a guide and protector; to\
matronize.\
Fortunately Lady Bell Finley, whom I had promised to chaperon, sent\
to excuse herself. Hannah More.\
\
CHAPERONAGE\
Chap"er*on`age, n.\
\
Defn: Attendance of a chaperon on a lady in public; protection\
afforded by a chaperon.\
\
CHAPFALLEN\
Chap"fall`en, a.\
\
Defn: Having the lower chap or jaw drooping, -- an indication of\
humiliation and dejection; crestfallen; discouraged. See Chopfallen.\
\
CHAPITER\
Chap"i*ter, n. Etym: [OF. chapitel, F. chapiteau, from L. capitellum,\
dim. of caput head. Cf. Capital, Chapter.]\
\
1. (Arch.)\
\
Defn: A capital [Obs.] See Chapital. Ex. xxxvi. 38.\
\
2. (Old Eng. Law)\
\
Defn: A summary in writing of such matters as are to be inquired of\
or presented before justices in eyre, or justices of assize, or of\
the peace, in their sessions; -- also called articles. Jacob.\
\
CHAPLAIN\
Chap"lain, n. Etym: [F. chapelain, fr. LL. capellanus, fr. capella.\
See Chapel.]\
\
1. An ecclesiastic who has a chapel, or who performs religious\
service in a chapel.\
\
2. A clergyman who is officially atteched to the army or navy, to\
some public institution, or to a family or court, for the purpose of\
performing divine service.\
\
3. Any person (clergyman or layman) chosen to conduct religious\
exercises for a society, etc.; as, a chaplain of a Masonic or a\
temperance lodge.\
\
CHAPLAINCY\
Chap"lain*cy, n.; pl. Chaplaincies (.\
\
Defn: The office, position, or station of a chaplain. Swift.\
\
CHAPLAINSHIP\
Chap"lain*ship, n.\
\
1. The office or business of a chaplain.\
The Bethesda of some knight's chaplainship. Milton.\
\
2. The possession or revenue of a chapel. Johnson.\
\
CHAPLESS\
Chap"less, a.\
\
Defn: Having no lower jaw; hence, fleshless. [R.] "Yellow, chapless\
skulls." Shak.\
\
CHAPLET\
Chap"let, n. Etym: [F. chapelet, dim. of OF. chapel hat, garland,\
dim. fr. LL. cappa. See Cap, and cf. Chapelet, Chapeau.]\
\
1. A garland or wreath to be worn on the head.\
\
2. A string of beads, or part of a string, used by Roman Catholic in\
praying; a third of a rosary, or fifty beads.\
Her chaplet of beads and her missal. Longfellow.\
\
3. (Arch.)\
\
Defn: A small molding, carved into beads, pearls, olives, etc.\
\
4. (Man.)\
\
Defn: A chapelet. See Chapelet, 1.\
\
5. (Founding)\
\
Defn: A bent piece of sheet iron, or a pin with thin plates on its\
ends, for holding a core in place in the mold.\
\
6. A tuft of feathers on a peacock's head. Johnson.\
\
CHAPLET\
Chap"let, n.\
\
Defn: A small chapel or shrine.\
\
CHAPLET\
Chap"let, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chapleted.]\
\
Defn: To adorn with a chaplet or with flowers. R. Browning.\
\
CHAPMAN\
Chap"man, n.; pl. Chapmen. Etym: [AS. ce\'b7pman; ce\'b7p trade + man man;\
akin to D. koopman, Sw. k\'88pman, Dan. ki\'88pmand, G. kaufmann.f. Chap to\
cheapen, and see Cheap.]\
\
1. One who buys and sells; a merchant; a buyer or a seller. [Obs.]\
The word of life is a quick commodity, and ought not, as a drug to be\
obtruded on those chapmen who are unwilling to buy it. T. Fuller.\
\
2. A peddler; a hawker.\
\
CHAPPY\
Chap"py,\
\
Defn: Full of chaps; cleft; gaping; open.\
\
CHAPS\
Chaps, n. pl.\
\
Defn: The jaws, or the fleshy parts about them. See Chap. "Open your\
chaps again." Shak.\
\
CHAPTER\
Chap"ter, n. Etym: [OF. chapitre, F. chapitre, fr. L. capitulum, dim.\
of caput head, the chief person or thing, the principal division of a\
writing, chapter. See Chief, and cf, Chapiter.]\
\
1. A division of a book or treatise; as, Genesis has fifty chapters.\
\
2. (Eccl.)\
(a) An assembly of monks, or of the prebends and other clergymen\
connected with a cathedral, conventual, or collegiate church, or of a\
diocese, usually presided over by the dean.\
(b) A community of canons or canonesses.\
(c) A bishop's council.\
(d) A business meeting of any religious community.\
\
3. An organized branch of some society or fraternity as of the\
Freemasons. Robertson.\
\
4. A meeting of certain organized societies or orders.\
\
5. A chapter house. [R.] Burrill.\
\
6. A decretal epistle. Ayliffe.\
\
7. A location or compartment.\
In his bosom! In what chapter of his bosom Shak.\
Chapter head, or Chapter heading, that which stands at the head of a\
chapter, as a title.\
 -- Chapter house, a house or room where a chapter meets, esp. a\
cathedral chapter.\
 -- The chapter of accidents, chance. Marryat.\
\
CHAPTER\
Chap"ter, v. t.\
\
1. To divide into chapters, as a book. Fuller.\
\
2. To correct; to bring to book, i. e., to demand chapter and verse.\
[Obs.] Dryden.\
\
CHAPTREL\
Chap"trel, n. Etym: [See Chapiter.] (Arch.)\
\
Defn: An impost. [Obs.]\
\
CHAR; CHARR\
Char, Charr, n. Etym: [Ir. cear, Gael. ceara, lit., red, blood-\
colored, fr. cear blood. So named from its red belly.] (Zo\'88l.)\
\
Defn: One of the several species of fishes of the genus Salvelinus,\
allied to the spotted trout and salmon, inhabiting deep lakes in\
mountainous regions in Europe. In the United States, the brook trout\
(Salvelinus fontinalis) is sometimes called a char.\
\
CHAR\
Char, n. Etym: [F.]\
\
Defn: A car; a chariot. [Obs.] Chaucer.\
\
CHAR\
Char, n. Etym: [OE. cherr, char a turning, time, work, AS. cerr,\
cyrr, turn, occasion, business, fr. cerran, cyrran, to turn; akin to\
OS. k\'cerian, OHG. ch\'ceran, G. kehren. Cf. Chore, Ajar.]\
\
Defn: Work done by the day; a single job, or task; a chore. [Written\
also chare.] [Eng.]\
When thou hast done this chare, I give thee leave To play till\
doomsday. Shak.\
\
CHAR; CHARE\
Char, Chare, v. t. Etym: [See 3d Char.]\
\
1. To perform; to do; to finish. [Obs.] Nores.\
Thet char is chared, as the good wife said when she had hanged her\
husband. Old Proverb.\
\
2. To work or hew, as stone. Oxf. Gloss.\
\
CHAR; CHARE\
Char, Chare, v. i.\
\
Defn: To work by the day, without being a regularly hired servant; to\
do small jobs.\
\
CHAR\
Char, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charred; p. pr. & vb. n. Charring.] Etym:\
[Prob. the same word as char to perform (see Char, n.), the modern\
use coming from charcoal, prop. coal-turned, turned to coal.]\
\
1. To reduce to coal or carbon by exposure to heat; to reduce to\
charcoal; to burn to a cinder.\
\
2. To burn slightly or partially; as, to char wood.\
\
CHARA\
Cha"ra, n. Etym: [NL., of uncertain origin.] (Bot.)\
\
Defn: A genus of flowerless plants, having articulated stems and\
whorled branches. They flourish in wet places.\
\
CHAR-A-BANC\
Char`-a-banc", n.; pl. Chars-a-banc. Etym: [F.]\
\
Defn: A long, light, open vehicle, with benches or seats running\
lengthwise.\
\
CHARACT\
Char"act, n.\
\
Defn: A distinctive mark; a character; a letter or sign. [Obs.] See\
Character.\
In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms. Shak.\
\
CHARACTER\
Char"ac*ter, n. Etym: [L., an instrument for marking, character, Gr.\
caract\'cbre.]\
\
1. A distinctive mark; a letter, figure, or symbol.\
It were much to be wished that there were throughout the world but\
one sort of character for each letter to express it to the eye.\
Holder.\
\
2. Style of writing or printing; handwriting; the peculiar form of\
letters used by a particular person or people; as, an inscription in\
the Runic character.\
You know the character to be your brother's Shak.\
\
3. The peculiar quality, or the sum of qualities, by which a person\
or a thing is distinguished from others; the stamp impressed by\
nature, education, or habit; that which a person or thing really is;\
nature; disposition.\
The character or that dominion. Milton.\
Know well each Ancient's proper character; His fable, subject, scope\
in every page; Religion, Country, genius of his Age. Pope.\
A man of . . . thoroughly subservient character. Motley.\
\
4. Strength of mind; resolution; independence; individuality; as, he\
has a great deal of character.\
\
5. Moral quality; the principles and motives that control the life;\
as, a man of character; his character saves him from suspicion.\
\
6. Quality, position, rank, or capacity; quality or conduct with\
respect to a certain office or duty; as, in the miserable character\
of a slave; in his character as a magistrate; her character as a\
daughter.\
\
7. The estimate, individual or general, put upon a person or thing;\
reputation; as, a man's character for truth and veracity; to give one\
a bad character.\
This subterraneous passage is much mended since Seneca gave so bad a\
character of it. Addison.\
\
8. A written statement as to behavior, competency, etc., given to a\
servant. [Colloq.]\
\
9. A unique or extraordinary individuality; a person characterized by\
peculiar or notable traits; a person who illustrates certain phases\
of character; as, Randolph was a character; C\'casar is a great\
historical character.\
\
10. One of the persons of a drama or novel.\
\
Note: "It would be well if character and reputation were used\
distinctively. In truth, character is what a person is; reputation is\
what he is supposed to be. Character is in himself, reputation is in\
the minds of others. Character is injured by temptations, and by\
wrongdoing; reputation by slanders, and libels. Character endures\
throughout defamation in every form, but perishes when there is a\
voluntary transgression; reputation may last through numerous\
transgressions, but be destroyed by a single, and even an unfounded,\
accusation or aspersion." Abbott.\
\
CHARACTER\
Char"ac*ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charactered.]\
\
1. To engrave; to inscribe. [R.]\
These trees shall be my books. And in their barks my thoughts I 'll\
character. Shak.\
\
2. To distinguish by particular marks or traits; to describe; to\
characterize. [R.] Mitford.\
\
CHARACTERISM\
Char"ac*ter*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.\
\
Defn: A distinction of character; a characteristic. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.\
\
CHARACTERISTIC\
Char`ac*ter*is"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. charact\'c8ristique.]\
\
Defn: Pertaining to, or serving to constitute, the character; showing\
the character, or distinctive qualities or traits, of a person or\
thing; peculiar; distinctive.\
Characteristic clearness of temper. Macaulay.\
\
CHARACTERISTIC\
Char`ac*ter*is"tic, n.\
\
1. A distinguishing trait, quality, or property; an element of\
character; that which characterized. Pope.\
The characteristics of a true critic. Johnson.\
\
2. (Math.)\
\
Defn: The integral part (whether positive or negative) of a\
logarithm.\
\
CHARACTERISTICAL\
Char`ac*ter*is"tic*al, a.\
\
Defn: Characteristic.\
\
CHARACTERISTICALLY\
Char`ac*ter*is"tic*al*ly, adv.\
\
Defn: In a characteristic manner; in a way that characterizes.\
\
CHARACTERIZATION\
Char`ac*ter*i*za"tion, n.\
\
Defn: The act or process of characterizing.\
\
CHARACTERIZE\
Char"ac*ter*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Characterized; p. pr. & vb. n.\
Characterizing.] Etym: [LL. characterizare, Gr. charact\'c8riser.]\
\
1. To make distinct and recognizable by peculiar marks or traits; to\
make with distinctive features.\
European, Asiatic, Chinese, African, and Grecian faces are\
Characterized. Arbuthot.\
\
2. To engrave or imprint. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.\
\
3. To indicate the character of; to describe.\
Under the name of Tamerlane he intended to characterize King William.\
Johnson.\
\
4. To be a characteristic of; to make, or express the character of.\
The softness and effeminacy which characterize the men of rank in\
most countries. W. Irving.\
\
Syn.\
 -- To describe; distinguish; mark; designate; style; particularize;\
entitle.\
\
CHARACTERLESS\
Char"ac*ter*less, a.\
\
Defn: Destitute of any distinguishing quality; without character or\
force.\
\
CHARACTERY\
Char"ac*ter*y, n.\
\
1. The art or means of characterizing; a system of signs or\
characters; symbolism; distinctive mark.\
Fairies use flowers for their charactery. Shak.\
\
2. That which is charactered; the meaning. [Obs.]\
I will construe to thee All the charactery of my sad brows. Shak.\
\
CHARADE\
Cha*rade", n. Etym: [F. charade, cf. Pr. charrada long chat, It\
ciarlare to chat, whence E. charlatan.]\
\
Defn: A verbal or acted enigma based upon a word which has two or\
more significant syllables or parts, each of which, as well as the\
word itself, is to be guessed from the descriptions or\
representations.\
\
CHARBOCLE\
Char"bo*cle, n.\
\
Defn: Carbuncle. [Written also Charboncle.] [Obs.] Chaucer.\
\
CHARBON\
Char"bon, n. Etym: [F., coal, charbon.]\
\
1. (Far.)\
\
Defn: A small black spot or mark remaining in the cavity of the\
corner tooth of a horse after the large spot or mark has become\
obliterated.\
\
2. A very contagious and fatal disease of sheep, horses, and cattle.\
See Maligmant pustule.\
\
CHARCOAL\
Char"coal`, n. Etym: [See Char, v. t., to burn or to reduce to coal,\
and Coal.]\
\
1. Impure carbon prepared from vegetable or animal substances; esp.,\
coal made by charring wood in a kiln, retort, etc., from which air is\
excluded. It is used for fuel and in various mechanical, artistic,\
and chemical processes.\
\
2. (Fine Arts)\
\
Defn: Finely prepared charcoal in small sticks, used as a drawing\
implement. Animal charcoal, a fine charcoal prepared by calcining\
bones in a closed vessel; -- used as a filtering agent in sugar\
refining, and as an absorbent and disinfectant.\
 -- Charcoal blacks, the black pigment, consisting of burnt ivory,\
bone, cock, peach stones, and other substances.\
 -- Charcoal drawing (Fine Arts), a drawing made with charcoal. See\
Charcoal, 2. Until within a few years this material has been used\
almost exclusively for preliminary outline, etc., but at present many\
finished drawings are made with it.\
 -- Charcoal point, a carbon pencil prepared for use un an electric\
light apparatus.\
 -- Mineral charcoal, a term applied to silky fibrous layers of\
charcoal, interlaminated in beds of ordinary bituminous coal; --\
known to miners as mother of coal.\
\
CHARD\
Chard, n. Etym: [Cf. F. carde esclent thistle.]\
\
1. The tender leaves or leafstalks of the artichoke, white beet,\
etc., blanched for table use.\
\
2. A variety of the white beet, which produces large, succulent\
leaves and leafstalks.\
\
CHARE\
Chare, n.\
\
Defn: A narrow street. [Prov. Eng.]\
\
CHARE\
Chare, n. & v.\
\
Defn: A chore; to chore; to do. See Char.\
\
CHARGE\
Charge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charged; p. pr. & vb. n. Charging.] Etym:\
[OF. chargier, F. charger, fr. LL. carricare, fr. L. carrus wagon.\
Cf. Cargo, Caricature, Cark, and see Car.]\
\
1. To lay on or impose, as a load, tax, or burden; to load; to fill.\
A carte that charged was with hay. Chaucer.\
The charging of children's memories with rules. Locke.\
\
2. To lay on or impose, as a task, duty, or trust; to command,\
instruct, or exhort with authority; to enjoin; to urge earnestly; as,\
to charge a jury; to charge the clergy of a diocese; to charge an\
agent.\
Moses . . . charged you to love the Lord your God. Josh. xxii. 5.\
Cromwell, I charge thee, fing away ambition. Shak.\
\
3. To lay on, impose, or make subject to or liable for.\
When land shal be charged by any lien. Kent.\
\
4. To fix or demand as a prince; as, he charges two dollars a barrelk\
for apples.\
\
5. To place something to the account of as a debt; to debit, as to\
charge one with goods. Also, to enter upon the debit side of an\
account; as, to charge a sum to one.\
\
6. To impute or ascribe; to lay to one's charge.\
No more accuse thy pen, but charge the crime On native loth and\
negligence of time. Dryden.\
\
7. To accuse; to make a charge or assertion against (a) person or\
thing); to lay the responsibility (for something said or done) at the\
door of.\
If the did that wrong you charge with. Tennyson.\
\
8. To place within or upon any firearm, piece of apparatus or\
machinery, the quantity it is intended and fitted to hold or bear; to\
load; to fill; as, to charge a gun; to charge an electrical machine,\
etc.\
Their battering cannon charged to the mouths. Shak.\
\
9. To ornament with or cause to bear; as, to charge an architectural\
member with a molding.\
\
10. (Her.)\
\
Defn: To assume as a bearing; as, he charges three roses or; to add\
to or represent on; as, he charges his shield with three roses or.\
\
11. To call to account; to challenge. [Obs.]\
To charge me to an answer. Shak.\
\
12. To bear down upon; to rush upon; to attack.\
Charged our main battle's front. Shak.\
\
Syn.\
 -- To intrust; command; exhort; instruct; accuse; impeach; arraign.\
See Accuse.\
\
CHARGE\
Charge, v. i.\
\
1. To make an onset or rush; as, to charge with fixed bayonets.\
Like your heroes of antiquity, he charges in iron. Glanvill.\
"Charge for the guns!" he said. Tennyson.\
\
2. To demand a price; as, to charge high for goods.\
\
3. To debit on an account; as, to charge for purchases.\
\
4. To squat on its belly and be still; -- a command given by a\
sportsman to a dog.\
\
CHARGE\
Charge, n. Etym: [F. charge, fr. charger to load. See Charge, v. t.,\
and cf. Cargo, Caricature.]\
\
1. A load or burder laid upon a person or thing.\
\
2. A person or thing commited or intrusted to the care, custody, or\
management of another; a trust.\
\
Note: The people of a parish or church are called the charge of the\
clergyman who is set over them.\
\
3. Custody or care of any person, thing, or place; office;\
responsibility; oversight; obigation; duty.\
'Tis a great charge to come under one body's hand. Shak.\
\
4. Heed; care; anxiety; trouble. [Obs.] Chaucer.\
\
5. Harm. [Obs.] Chaucer.\
\
6. An order; a mandate or command; an injunction.\
The king gave cherge concerning Absalom. 2. Sam. xviii. 5.\
\
7. An address (esp. an earnest or impressive address) containing\
instruction or exhortation; as, the charge of a judge to a jury; the\
charge of a bishop to his clergy.\
\
8. An accusation of a wrong of offense; allegation; indictment;\
specification of something alleged.\
The charge of confounding very different classes of phenomena.\
Whewell.\
\
9. Whatever constitutes a burden on property, as rents, taxes, lines,\
etc.; costs; expense incurred; -- usually in the plural.\
\
10. The price demanded for a thing or service.\
\
11. An entry or a account of that which is due from one party to\
another; that which is debited in a business transaction; as, a\
charge in an account book.\
\
12. That quantity, as of ammunition, electricity, ore, fuel, etc.,\
which any apparatus, as a gun, battery, furnace, machine, etc., is\
intended to receive and fitted to hold, or which is actually in it at\
one time\
\
13. The act of rushing upon, or towards, an enemy; a sudden onset or\
attack, as of troops, esp. cavalry; hence, the signal for attack; as,\
to sound the charge.\
Never, in any other war afore, gave the Romans a hotter charge upon\
the enemies. Holland.\
The charge of the light brigade. Tennyson.\
\
14. A position (of a weapon) fitted for attack; as, to bring a weapon\
to the charge.\
\
15. (Far.)\
\
Defn: A soft of plaster or ointment.\
\
16. (Her.)\
\
Defn: A bearing. See Bearing, n., 8.\
\
17. Etym: [Cf. Charre.]\
\
Defn: Thirty-six pigs of lead, each pig weighing about seventy\
pounds; -- called also charre.\
\
18. Weight; import; value.\
Many suchlike "as's" of great charge. Shak.\
Back charge. See under Back, a.\
 -- Bursting charge. (a (Mil.) The charge which bursts a shell, etc.\
(b (Mining) A small quantity of fine powder to secure the ignition of\
a charge of coarse powder in blasting.\
 -- Charge and discharge (Equity Practice), the old mode or form of\
taking an account before a master in chancery.\
 -- Charge sheet, the paper on which are entered at a police station\
all arrests and accusations.\
 -- To sound the charge, to give the signal for an attack.\
\
Syn.\
 -- Care; custody; trust; management; office; expense; cost; price;\
assault; attack; onset; injunction; command; order; mandate;\
instruction; accusation; indictment.\
\
CHARGEABLE\
Charge"a*ble, a.\
\
1. That may be charged, laid, imposed, or imputes; as, a duty\
chargeable on iron; a fault chargeable on a man.\
\
2. Subject to be charge or accused; liable or responsible; as,\
revenues chargeable with a claim; a man chargeable with murder.\
\
3. Serving to create expense; costly; burdensome.\
That we might not be chargeable to any of you. 2. Thess. iii. 8.\
For the sculptures, which are elegant, were very chargeable. Evelyn.\
\
CHARGEABLENESS\
Charge"a*ble*ness, n.\
\
Defn: The quality of being chargeable or expensive. [Obs.]\
Whitelocke.\
\
CHARGEABLY\
Charge"a*bly, adv.\
\
Defn: At great cost; expensively. [Obs.]\
\
CHARGEANT\
Char"geant, a. Etym: [F. chargeant, fr. charger to load.]\
\
Defn: Burdensome; troublesome. [Obs.] Chaucer.\
\
CHARGE D'AFFAIRES\
Char`g\'c8" d'af`faires", n.; pl. Charg\'c8s d'affaires. Etym: [F.,\
"charged with affairs."]\
\
Defn: A diplomatic representative, or minister of an inferior grade,\
accredited by the government of one state to the minister of foreign\
affairs of another; also, a substitute, ad interim, for an ambassador\
or minister plenipotentiary.\
\
CHARGEFUL\
Charge"ful, a.\
\
Defn: Costly; expensive. [Obs.]\
The fineness of the gold and chargeful fashion. Shak.\
\
CHARGEHOUSE\
Charge"house`, n.\
\
Defn: A schoolhouse. [Obs.]\
\
CHARGELESS\
Charge"less, a.\
\
Defn: Free from, or with little, charge.\
\
CHARGEOUS\
Char"geous, a.\
\
Defn: Burdensome. [Obs.]\
I was chargeous to no man. Wyclif, (2 Cor. xi. 9).\
\
CHARGER\
Char"ger, n.\
\
1. One who, or that which charges.\
\
2. An instrument for measuring or inserting a charge.\
\
3. A large dish. [Obs.]\
Give me here John Baptist's head in a charger. Matt. xiv. 8.\
\
4. A horse for battle or parade. Macaulay.\
And furious every charger neighed. Campbell.\
\
CHARGESHIP\
Char*ge"ship, n.\
\
Defn: The office of a charg\'c8 d'affaires.\
\
CHARILY\
Char"i*ly, adv.\
\
Defn: In a chary manner; carefully; cautiously; frugally.\
\
CHARINESS\
Char"i*ness, n.\
\
Defn: The quality of being chary.\
\
CHARIOT\
Char"i*ot, n. Etym: [F. Chariot, from char car. See Car.]\
\
1. (Antiq.)\
\
Defn: A two-wheeled car or vehicle for war, racing, state\
processions, etc.\
First moved the chariots, after whom the foot. Cowper.\
\
2. A four-wheeled pleasure or state carriage, having one seat. Shak.\
\
CHARIOT\
Char"i*ot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charioted; p. pr. & vb. n.\
Charioting.]\
\
Defn: To convey in a chariot. Milton.\
\
CHARIOTEE\
Char`i*ot*ee", n.\
\
Defn: A light, covered, four-wheeled pleasure carriage with two\
seats.\
\
CHARIOTEER\
Char`i*ot*eer", n.\
\
1. One who drives a chariot.\
\
2. (Astron.)\
\
Defn: A constellation. See Auriga, and Wagones.\
\
CHARISM\
Cha"rism, n. Etym: [Gr. .] (Eccl.)\
\
Defn: A miraculously given power, as of healing, speaking foreign\
languages without instruction, etc., attributed to some of the early\
Christians.\
\
CHARISMATIC\
Char`is*mat"ic, a.\
\
Defn: Of or pertaining to a charism.\
\
CHARITABLE\
Char"i*ta*ble, a.Etym: [F. See Charity.]\
\
1. Full of love and good will; benevolent; kind.\
Be thy intents wicked or charitable, . . . . . . I will speak to\
thee. Shak.\
\
2. Liberal in judging of others; disposed to look on the best side,\
and to avoid harsh judgment.\
\
3. Liberal in benefactions to the poor; giving freely; generous;\
beneficent.\
What charitable men afford to beggars. Shak.\
\
4. Of or pertaining to charity; springing from, or intended for,\
charity; relating to almsgiving; elemosynary; as, a charitable\
institution.\
\
5. Dictated by kindness; favorable; lenient.\
By a charitable construction it may be a sermon. L. Andrews.\
\
Syn.\
 -- Kind; beneficent; benevolent; generous; lenient; forgiving;\
helpful; liberal; favorable; indulgent.\
\
CHARITABLENESS\
Char"i*ta*ble*ness, n.\
\
Defn: The quality of being charitable; the exercise of charity.\
\
CHARITABLY\
Char"i*ta*bly, adv.\
\
Defn: In a charitable manner.\
\
CHARITY\
Char"i*ty, n.; pl. Charities. Etym: [F. charit\'c8 fr. L. caritas\
dearness, high regard, love, from carus dear, costly, loved; asin to\
Skr. kam to wish, love, cf. Ir. cara a friend, W. caru to love. Cf.\
Caress.]\
\
1. Love; universal benevolence; good will.\
\
Defn:\
Now abideth faith, hope, charity, three; but the greatest of these is\
charity. 1. Cor. xiii. 13.\
They, at least, are little to be envied, in whose hearts the great\
charities . . . lie dead. Ruskin.\
With malice towards none, with charity for all. Lincoln.\
\
2. Liberality in judging of men and their actions; a disposition\
which inclines men to put the best construction on the words and\
actions of others.\
The highest exercise of charity is charity towards the uncharitable.\
Buckminster.\
\
3. Liberality to the poor and the suffering, to benevolent\
institutions, or to worthy causes; generosity.\
The heathen poet, in commending the charity of Dido to the Trojans,\
spake like a Christian. Dryden.\
\
4. Whatever is bestowed gratuitously on the needy or suffering for\
their relief; alms; any act of kindness.\
She did ill then to refuse her a charity. L'Estrange.\
\
5. A charitable institution, or a gift to create and support such an\
institution; as, Lady Margaret's charity.\
\
6. pl. (Law)\
\
Defn: Eleemosynary appointments [grants or devises] including relief\
of the poor or friendless, education, religious culture, and public\
institutions.\
The charities that soothe, and heal, and bless, Are scattered at the\
feet of man like flowers. Wordsworth.\
Sisters of Charity (R. C. Ch.), a sisterhood of religious women\
engaged in works of mercy, esp. in nursing the sick; -- a popular\
designation. There are various orders of the Sisters of Charity.\
\
Syn.\
 -- Love; benevolence; good will; affection; tenderness; beneficence;\
liberality; almsgiving.\
\
CHARIVARI\
Cha*ri`va*ri", n. Etym: [F.]\
\
Defn: A mock serenade of discordant noises, made with kettles, tin\
horns, etc., designed to annoy and insult.\
\
Note: It was at first performed before the house of any person of\
advanced age who married a second time.\
\
CHARK\
Chark, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. charcoal.]\
\
Defn: Charcoal; a cinder. [Obs.] DeFoe.\
\
CHARK\
Chark, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charked.]\
\
Defn: To burn to a coal; to char. [Obs.]\
\
CHARLATAN\
Char"la*tan, n. Etym: [F. charlatan, fr. It. ciarlatano, fr. ciarlare\
to chartter, prate; of imitative origin; cf. It. zirlare to whistle\
like a thrush.]\
\
Defn: One who prates much in his own favor, and makes unwarrantable\
pretensions; a quack; an impostor; an empiric; a mountebank.\
\
CHARLATANIC; CHARLATANICAL\
Char`la*tan"ic, Char`la*tan"ic*al, a.\
\
Defn: Of or like a charlatan; making undue pretension; empirical;\
pretentious; quackish.\
 -- Char`la*tan"ic*al*ly, adv.\
\
CHARLATANISM\
Char"la*tan*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. charlatanisme.]\
\
Defn: Charlatanry.\
\
CHARLATANRY\
Char"la*tan*ry, n. Etym: [F. charlatanrie, from It. ciarlataneria.\
See Charlatan.]\
\
Defn: Undue pretensions to skill; quackery; wheedling; empiricism.\
\
CHARLES'S WAIN\
Charles's Wain. Etym: [Charles + wain; cf. AS. Carles w (for w\'cagn),\
Sw. karlvagnen, Dan. karlsvogn. See Churl, and Wain.] (Astron.)\
\
Defn: The group of seven stars, commonly called the Dipper, in the\
constellation Ursa Major, or Great Bear. See Ursa major, under Ursa.\
\
Note: The name is sometimes also applied to the Constellation.\
\
CHARLIE\
Char"lie, n.\
\
1. A familiar nickname or substitute for Charles.\
\
2.  A night watchman; -- an old name.\
\
3.  A short, pointed beard, like that worn by Charles I.\
\
4.  As a proper name, a fox; -- so called in fables and familiar\
literature.\
\
CHARLOCK\
Char"lock, n. Etym: [AS. cerlic; the latter part perh. fr. AS. le\'b7c\
leek. Cf. Hemlock.] (Bot.)\
\
Defn: A cruciferous plant (Brassica sinapistrum) with yellow flowers;\
wild mustard. It is troublesome in grain fields. Called also\
chardock, chardlock, chedlock, and kedlock. Jointed charlock, White\
charlock, a troublesome weed (Raphanus Raphanistrum) with straw-\
colored, whitish, or purplish flowers, and jointed pods: wild radish.\
\
CHARLOTTE\
Char"lotte, n. Etym: [F.]\
\
Defn: A kind of pie or pudding made by lining a dish with slices of\
bread, and filling it with bread soaked in milk, and baked. Charlotte\
Russe (, or Charlotte \'87 la russe Etym: [F., lit., Russian charlotte]\
(Cookery), a dish composed of custard or whipped cream, inclosed in\
sponge cake.\
\
CHARM\
Charm, n. Etym: [F. charme, fr. L. carmen song, verse, incantation,\
for casmen, akin to Skr. \'c1asman, \'c1asa, a laudatory song, from a root\
signifying to praise, to sing.]\
\
1. A melody; a song. [Obs.]\
With charm of earliest birds. Milton.\
Free liberty to chant our charms at will. Spenser.\
\
2. A word or combination of words sung or spoken in the practice of\
magic; a magical combination of words, characters, etc.; an\
incantation.\
My high charms work. Shak.\
\
3. That which exerts an irresistible power to please and attract;\
that which fascinates; any alluring quality.\
Charms strike the sight, but merit wins the soul. Pope.\
The charm of beauty's powerful glance. Milton.\
\
4. Anything worn for its supposed efficacy to the wearer in averting\
ill or securing good fortune.\
\
5. Any small decorative object worn on the person, as a seal, a key,\
a silver whistle, or the like. Bunches of charms are often worn at\
the watch chain.\
\
Syn. - Spell; incantation; conjuration; enchantment; fascination;\
attraction.\
\
CHARM\
Charm, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Charming.] Etym:\
[Cf. F. charmer. See Charm, n.]\
\
1. To make music upon; to tune. [Obs. & R.]\
Here we our slender pipes may safely charm. Spenser.\
\
2. To subdue, control, or summon by incantation or supernatural\
influence; to affect by magic.\
No witchcraft charm thee! Shak.\
\
3. To subdue or overcome by some secret power, or by that which gives\
pleasure; to allay; to soothe.\
Music the fiercest grief can charm. Pope.\
\
4. To attract irresistibly; to delight exceedingly; to enchant; to\
fascinate.\
They, on their mirth and dance Intent, with jocund music charm his\
ear. Milton.\
\
5. To protect with, or make invulnerable by, spells, charms, or\
supernatural influences; as, a charmed life.\
I, in my own woe charmed, Could not find death. Shak.\
\
Syn. - To fascinate; enchant; enrapture; captivate; bewitch; allure;\
subdue; delight; entice; transport.\
\
CHARM\
Charm, v. i.\
\
1. To use magic arts or occult power; to make use of charms.\
The voice of charmers, charming never so wisely. Ps. lviii. 5.\
\
2. To act as, or produce the effect of, a charm; to please greatly;\
to be fascinating.\
\
3. To make a musical sound. [Obs.] Milton.\
\
CHARMEL\
Char"mel, n. Etym: [Heb.]\
\
Defn: A fruitful field.\
Libanus shall be turned into charmel, and charmel shall be esteemed\
as a forest. Isa. xxix. 17 (Douay version).\
\
CHARMER\
Charm"er, n.\
\
1. One who charms, or has power to charm; one who uses the power of\
enchantment; a magician. Deut. xviii. 11.\
\
2. One who delights and attracts the affections.\
\
CHARMERESS\
Charm"er*ess, n.\
\
Defn: An enchantress. Chaucer.\
\
CHARMFUL\
Charm"ful, a.\
\
Defn: Abounding with charms. "His charmful lyre." Cowley.\
\
CHARMING\
Charm"ing, a.\
\
Defn: Pleasing the mind or senses in a high degree; delighting;\
fascinating; attractive.\
How charming is divine philosophy. Milton.\
\
Syn. - Enchanting; bewitching; captivating; enrapturing; alluring;\
fascinating; delightful; pleasurable; graceful; lovely; amiable;\
pleasing; winning.\
 -- Charm"ing*ly, adv.\
 -- Charm"ing*ness, n.\
\
CHARMLESS\
Charm"less, a.\
\
Defn: Destitute of charms. Swift.\
\
CHARNECO; CHARNICO\
Char"ne*co, Char"ni*co, n.\
\
Defn: A sort of sweet wine. [Obs.] Shak.\
\
CHARNEL\
Char"nel, a. Etym: [F. charnel carnal, fleshly, fr. L. carnalis. See\
Carnal.]\
\
Defn: Containing the bodies of the dead. "Charnel vaults." Milton.\
Charnel house, a tomb, vault, cemetery, or other place where the\
bones of the dead are deposited; originally, a place for the bones\
thrown up when digging new graves in old burial grounds.\
\
CHARNEL\
Char"nel, n.\
\
Defn: A charnel house; a grave; a cemetery.\
In their proud charnel of Thermopyl\'ca. Byron.\
\
CHARON\
Cha"ron, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Cless. Myth.)\
\
Defn: The son of Erebus and Nox, whose office it was to ferry the\
souls of the dead over the Styx, a river of the infernal regions.\
Shak.\
\
CHARPIE\
Char"pie, n. Etym: [F., properly fem. p. p. of OF. charpir, carpir,\
to pluck, fr. L. carpere. Cf. Carpet.] (Med.)\
\
Defn: Straight threads obtained by unraveling old linen cloth; --\
used for surgical dressings.\
\
CHARQUI\
Char"qui, n. Etym: [Sp. A term used in South America, Central\
America, and the Western United States.]\
\
Defn: Jerked beef; beef cut into long strips and dried in the wind\
and sun. Darwin.\
\
CHARR\
Charr, n.\
\
Defn: See 1st Char.\
\
CHARRAS\
Char"ras, n.\
\
Defn: The gum resin of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa). Same as\
Churrus. Balfour.\
\
CHARRE\
Charre, n. Etym: [LL. charrus a certain weight.]\
\
Defn: See Charge, n., 17.\
\
CHARRY\
Char"ry, a. Etym: [See 6th Char.]\
\
Defn: Pertaining to charcoal, or partaking of its qualities.\
\
CHART\
Chart, n. Etym: [A doublet of card: cf. F. charte charter, carte\
card. See Card, and cf. Charter.]\
\
1. A sheet of paper, pasteboard, or the like, on which information is\
exhibited, esp. when the information is arranged in tabular form; as,\
an historical chart.\
\
2. A map; esp., a hydrographic or marine map; a map on which is\
projected a portion of water and the land which it surrounds, or by\
which it is surrounded, intended especially for the use of seamen;\
as, the United States Coast Survey charts; the English Admiralty\
charts.\
\
3. A written deed; a charter. Globular chart, a chart constructed on\
a globular projection. See under Globular.\
 -- Heliographic chart, a map of the sun with its spots.\
 -- Mercator's chart, a chart constructed on the principle of\
Mercator's projection. See Projection.\
 -- Plane chart, a representation of some part of the superficies of\
the globe, in which its spherical form is disregarded, the meridians\
being drawn parallel to each other, and the parallels of latitude at\
equal distances.\
 -- Selenographic chart, a map representing the surface of the moon.\
 -- Topographic chart, a minute delineation of a limited place or\
region.\
\
CHART\
Chart, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charted.]\
\
Defn: To lay down in a chart; to map; to delineate; as, to chart a\
coast.\
\
CHARTA\
Char"ta, n. Etym: [L., leaf of paper. See Chart.] (Law)\
(a) Material on which instruments, books, etc., are written;\
parchment or paper.\
(b) A charter or deed; a writing by which a grant is made. See Magna\
Charta.\
\
CHARTACEOUS\
Char*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. chartaceus. See Charta.]\
\
Defn: Resembling paper or parchment; of paper-like texture; papery.\
\
CHARTE\
Charte, n. Etym: [F. See Chart.]\
\
Defn: The constitution, or fundamental law, of the French monarchy,\
as established on the restoration of Louis XVIII., in 1814.\
\
CHARTER\
Char"ter, n. Etym: [OF. chartre, F. chartre, charte, fr. L. chartula\
a little paper, dim. of charta. See Chart, Card.]\
\
1. A written evidence in due form of things done or granted,\
contracts made, etc., between man and man; a deed, or conveyance.\
[Archaic]\
\
2. An instrument in writing, from the sovereign power of a state or\
country, executed in due form, bestowing rights, franchises, or\
privileges.\
The king [John, a.d. 1215], with a facility somewhat suspicious,\
signed and sealed the charter which was required of him. This famous\
deed, commonly called the "Great Charter," either granted or secured\
very important liberties and privileges to every order of men in the\
kingdom. Hume.\
\
3. An act of a legislative body creating a municipal or other\
corporation and defining its powers and privileges. Also, an\
instrument in writing from the constituted authorities of an order or\
society (as the Freemasons), creating a lodge and defining its\
powers.\
\
4. A special privilege, immunity, or exemption.\
My mother, Who has a charter to extol her blood, When she does praise\
me, grieves me. Shak.\
\
5. (Com.)\
\
Defn: The letting or hiring a vessel by special contract, or the\
contract or instrument whereby a vessel is hired or let; as, a ship\
is offered for sale or charter. See Charter party, below. Charter\
land (O. Eng. Law), land held by charter, or in socage; bookland.\
 -- Charter member, one of the original members of a society or\
corporation, esp. one named in a charter, or taking part in the first\
proceedings under it.\
 -- Charter party Etym: [F. chartre partie, or charte partie, a\
divided charter; from the practice of cutting the instrument of\
contract in two, and giving one part to each of the contractors]\
(Com.), a mercantile lease of a vessel; a specific contract by which\
the owners of a vessel let the entire vessel, or some principal part\
of the vessel, to another person, to be used by the latter in\
transportation for his own account, either under their charge or his.\
 -- People's Charter (Eng. Hist.), the document which embodied the\
demands made by the Chartists, so called, upon the English government\
in 1838.\
\
CHARTER\
Char"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chartered; p. pr. & vb. n. Chartering.]\
\
1. To establish by charter.\
\
2. To hire or let by charter, as a ship. See Charter party, under\
Charter, n.\
\
CHARTERED\
Char"tered, a.\
\
1. Granted or established by charter; having, or existing under, a\
charter; having a privilege by charter.\
The sufficiency of chartered rights. Palfrey.\
The air, a chartered libertine. Shak.\
\
2. Hired or let by charter, as a ship.\
\
CHARTERER\
Char"ter*er, n.\
\
Defn: One who charters; esp. one who hires a ship for a voyage.\
\
CHARTERHOUSE\
Char"ter*house`, n.\
\
Defn: A well known public school and charitable foundation in the\
building once used as a Carthusian monastery (Chartreuse) in London.\
\
}